src/content/docs/docs/public-api/app.mdx, before:

---
title: "Apps"
description: "Detailed documentation for the Apps endpoint, providing comprehensive insights into managing and interacting with Capacitor applications through Capgo's platform."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

Apps are the foundational entities in Capgo. Each app represents a unique Capacitor application that you can manage and update through the platform. The Apps API allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete app configurations.

## Understanding Apps

An app in Capgo represents your Capacitor application and includes:
- **App ID**: Unique identifier for your application
- **Name**: Human-readable name of your application
- **Icons**: Visual identifiers for your app in the dashboard
- **Configuration**: Settings that control how updates are delivered
- **Ownership**: Organization and user access information
- **Usage Statistics**: Metrics about installs and updates

## Best Practices

1. **Naming Convention**: Use clear, identifiable names for your apps
2. **Security**: Protect your API keys and access credentials
3. **Organization**: Group related apps under the same organization
4. **Monitoring**: Regularly check app statistics and performance
5. **Backup**: Maintain configuration backups for critical apps

## Endpoints

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/app/`

Retrieve information about your apps.

#### Query Parameters
- `page`: Optional. Page number for pagination
- `limit`: Optional. Number of results per page (default: 50)
- `org_id`: Optional. Filter apps by organization ID. If not provided, returns apps from all organizations the user has access to

For getting a specific app:
- Use the app ID in the URL path: `https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

#### Response Type

```typescript
interface App {
  app_id: string
  created_at: string | null
  default_upload_channel: string
  icon_url: string
  id: string | null
  last_version: string | null
  name: string | null
  owner_org: string
  retention: number
  transfer_history: Json[] | null
  updated_at: string | null
  user_id: string | null
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
# Get all apps
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/"

# Get apps from a specific organization
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/?org_id=046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"

# Get specific app
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app"
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "app_id": "com.demo.app",
      "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "default_upload_channel": "dev",
      "icon_url": "https://example.com/icon.png",
      "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
      "last_version": "1.0.0",
      "name": "Demo App",
      "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
      "retention": 2592000,
      "transfer_history": null,
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "user_id": "6aa76066-55ef-4238-ade6-0b32334a4097"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/app/`

Create a new app.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface CreateApp {
  app_id: string
  name: string
  icon?: string
  owner_org: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
# Create new app
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "My New App",
    "app_id": "com.demo.myapp", // this id is unique in Capgo This cannot be reused by any account.
    "icon": "https://example.com/icon.png",
    "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "app_id": "My New App",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "default_upload_channel": "dev",
  "icon_url": "https://example.com/icon.png",
  "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "name": "My New App",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
  "retention": 2592000,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### PUT

`https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

Update an existing app. The app ID is specified in the URL path.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface UpdateApp {
  name?: string
  icon?: string
  retention?: number
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X PUT \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Updated App Name",
    "icon": "https://example.com/updated-icon.png",
    "retention": 45
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "app_id": "com.demo.app",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "default_upload_channel": "dev",
  "icon_url": "https://example.com/updated-icon.png",
  "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "name": "Updated App Name",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
  "retention": 45,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

Delete an app and all associated resources. The app ID is specified in the URL path. Use with extreme caution as this action cannot be undone.

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// App not found
{
  "error": "App not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Duplicate custom ID
{
  "error": "Custom ID already in use",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid parameters
{
  "error": "Invalid app configuration",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage app",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Organization access denied
{
  "status": "You do not have access to this organization"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Create New App**
```typescript
// Set up a new app
{
  "name": "Production App",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
}
```

2. **Update App Configuration**
```typescript
// Change app name and icon
{
  "name": "Rebranded App Name",
  "icon": "https://example.com/new-icon.png"
}
```

3. **Set Retention Policy**
```typescript
// Configure automatic bundle cleanup
{
  "retention": 30 // Keep bundles for 30 days
}
```

4. **Get Apps by Organization**
```bash
# List all apps in a specific organization
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/?org_id=046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
```

## Resource Management

1. **Storage Optimization**: Monitor storage usage and set appropriate retention policies
2. **Organization**: Group related apps under a single organization
3. **Access Control**: Manage which team members can modify app settings
4. **Backup Strategy**: Back up critical app configurations and settings

Commit message:

docs: clarify bundle naming in public API

src/content/docs/docs/public-api/app.mdx, after:

---
title: "Apps"
description: "Detailed documentation for the Apps endpoint, providing comprehensive insights into managing and interacting with Capacitor applications through Capgo's platform."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

Apps are the foundational entities in Capgo. Each app represents a unique Capacitor application that you can manage and update through the platform. The Apps API allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete app configurations.

## Understanding Apps

An app in Capgo represents your Capacitor application and includes:
- **App ID**: Unique identifier for your application
- **Name**: Human-readable name of your application
- **Icons**: Visual identifiers for your app in the dashboard
- **Configuration**: Settings that control how updates are delivered
- **Ownership**: Organization and user access information
- **Usage Statistics**: Metrics about installs and updates

## Best Practices

1. **Naming Convention**: Use clear, identifiable names for your apps
2. **Security**: Protect your API keys and access credentials
3. **Organization**: Group related apps under the same organization
4. **Monitoring**: Regularly check app statistics and performance
5. **Backup**: Maintain configuration backups for critical apps

## Endpoints

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/app/`

Retrieve information about your apps.

#### Query Parameters
- `page`: Optional. Page number for pagination
- `limit`: Optional. Number of results per page (default: 50)
- `org_id`: Optional. Filter apps by organization ID. If not provided, returns apps from all organizations the user has access to

For getting a specific app:
- Use the app ID in the URL path: `https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

#### Response Type

Note: `last_version` refers to the last bundle (version) uploaded for the app.

```typescript
interface App {
  app_id: string
  created_at: string | null
  default_upload_channel: string
  icon_url: string
  id: string | null
  last_version: string | null // last bundle (version) name
  name: string | null
  owner_org: string
  retention: number
  transfer_history: Json[] | null
  updated_at: string | null
  user_id: string | null
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
# Get all apps
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/"

# Get apps from a specific organization
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/?org_id=046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"

# Get specific app
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app"
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "app_id": "com.demo.app",
      "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "default_upload_channel": "dev",
      "icon_url": "https://example.com/icon.png",
      "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
      "last_version": "1.0.0",
      "name": "Demo App",
      "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
      "retention": 2592000,
      "transfer_history": null,
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "user_id": "6aa76066-55ef-4238-ade6-0b32334a4097"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/app/`

Create a new app.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface CreateApp {
  app_id: string
  name: string
  icon?: string
  owner_org: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
# Create new app
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "My New App",
    "app_id": "com.demo.myapp", // this id is unique in Capgo This cannot be reused by any account.
    "icon": "https://example.com/icon.png",
    "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "app_id": "My New App",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "default_upload_channel": "dev",
  "icon_url": "https://example.com/icon.png",
  "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "name": "My New App",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
  "retention": 2592000,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### PUT

`https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

Update an existing app. The app ID is specified in the URL path.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface UpdateApp {
  name?: string
  icon?: string
  retention?: number
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X PUT \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Updated App Name",
    "icon": "https://example.com/updated-icon.png",
    "retention": 45
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "app_id": "com.demo.app",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "default_upload_channel": "dev",
  "icon_url": "https://example.com/updated-icon.png",
  "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "name": "Updated App Name",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8",
  "retention": 45,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/app/:app_id`

Delete an app and all associated resources. The app ID is specified in the URL path. Use with extreme caution as this action cannot be undone.

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  https://api.capgo.app/app/com.demo.app
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// App not found
{
  "error": "App not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Duplicate custom ID
{
  "error": "Custom ID already in use",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid parameters
{
  "error": "Invalid app configuration",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage app",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Organization access denied
{
  "status": "You do not have access to this organization"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Create New App**
```typescript
// Set up a new app
{
  "name": "Production App",
  "owner_org": "046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
}
```

2. **Update App Configuration**
```typescript
// Change app name and icon
{
  "name": "Rebranded App Name",
  "icon": "https://example.com/new-icon.png"
}
```

3. **Set Retention Policy**
```typescript
// Configure automatic bundle cleanup
{
  "retention": 30 // Keep bundles for 30 days
}
```

4. **Get Apps by Organization**
```bash
# List all apps in a specific organization
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/app/?org_id=046a36ac-e03c-4590-9257-bd6c9dba9ee8"
```

## Resource Management

1. **Storage Optimization**: Monitor storage usage and set appropriate retention policies
2. **Organization**: Group related apps under a single organization
3. **Access Control**: Manage which team members can modify app settings
4. **Backup Strategy**: Back up critical app configurations and settings
