src/content/docs/docs/public-api/channels.mdx, before:

---
title: "Channels"
description: "Guide to managing app update channels in Capgo, covering version control, platform targeting, and update policies."
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

Channels are the core mechanism for managing app updates in Capgo. They allow you to control how and when your users receive updates, enabling features like A/B testing, staged rollouts, and platform-specific updates.

## Understanding Channels

A channel represents a distribution track for your app updates. Each channel can be configured with specific rules and constraints:

- **Version Control**: Specify which version users receive
- **Platform Targeting**: Target specific platforms (iOS/Android)
- **Update Policies**: Control how updates are delivered
- **Device Restrictions**: Manage which devices can access updates

## Channel Configuration Options

- **public**: Set as default channel for new devices
- **disableAutoUpdateUnderNative**: Prevent updates when the device's native app version is newer than the update version available in the channel (e.g., device is on version 1.2.3, but channel has 1.2.2)
- **disableAutoUpdate**: Control update behavior ("major", "minor", "version_number", "none")
- **ios/android**: Enable/disable for specific platforms
- **allow_device_self_set**: Let devices choose their channel
- **allow_emulator**: Allow updates on emulator devices
- **allow_dev**: Allow updates on development builds

## Best Practices

1. **Testing Channel**: Maintain a testing channel for internal validation
2. **Staged Rollout**: Use multiple channels for gradual update deployment
3. **Platform Separation**: Create separate channels for iOS and Android when needed
4. **Version Control**: Use semantic versioning for clear update paths

## Endpoints

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Create or update a channel configuration.

#### Request Body

```typescript
type disable_update = "major" | "minor" | "version_number" | "none"
interface ChannelSet {
  app_id: string
  channel: string
  version?: string
  public?: boolean
  disableAutoUpdateUnderNative?: boolean
  disableAutoUpdate?: disable_update
  ios?: boolean
  android?: boolean
  allow_device_self_set?: boolean
  allow_emulator?: boolean
  allow_dev?: boolean
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "channel": "beta",
    "version": "1.2.0",
    "public": false,
    "disableAutoUpdate": "minor",
    "ios": true,
    "android": true,
    "allow_emulator": true
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/channel/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Retrieve channel information. Returns 50 channels per page.

#### Query Parameters
- `app_id`: Required. The ID of your app
- `page`: Optional. Page number for pagination
- `channel`: Optional. Specific channel name to retrieve

#### Example Requests

```bash
# Get all channels
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123"

# Get specific channel
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123&channel=beta"

# Get next page
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123&page=1"
```

#### Response Type

```typescript
interface Channel {
    id: number;
    created_at: string;
    name: string;
    app_id: string;
    version: {
        id: number,
        name: string
    };
    created_by: string;
    updated_at: string;
    public: boolean;
    disableAutoUpdateUnderNative: boolean;
    disableAutoUpdate: boolean;
    allow_emulator: boolean;
    allow_dev: boolean;
}
```

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "production",
      "app_id": "app_123",
      "version": {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "1.0.0"
      },
      "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "created_by": "user_123",
      "public": true,
      "disableAutoUpdateUnderNative": false,
      "disableAutoUpdate": false,
      "allow_emulator": false,
      "allow_dev": false
    }
  ]
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Delete a channel. Note that this will affect all devices using this channel.

#### Query Parameters

```typescript
interface Channel {
  channel: string
  app_id: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "channel": "beta"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/channel/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// Channel not found
{
  "error": "Channel not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid version format
{
  "error": "Invalid version format. Use semantic versioning",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid update policy
{
  "error": "Invalid disableAutoUpdate value",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage channels",
  "status": "KO"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Beta Testing**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "beta",
  "version": "1.2.0-beta",
  "public": false,
  "allow_emulator": true,
  "allow_dev": true
}
```

2. **Production Rollout**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "production",
  "version": "1.2.0",
  "public": true,
  "disableAutoUpdate": "minor"
}
```

3. **Platform-Specific Updates**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "ios-hotfix",
  "version": "1.2.1",
  "ios": true,
  "android": false
}
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify bundle naming in public API (#458)

src/content/docs/docs/public-api/channels.mdx, after:

---
title: "Channels"
description: "Guide to managing app update channels in Capgo, covering bundle (version) control, platform targeting, and update policies."
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

Channels are the core mechanism for managing app updates in Capgo. They allow you to control how and when your users receive updates, enabling features like A/B testing, staged rollouts, and platform-specific updates.

## Understanding Channels

A channel represents a distribution track for your app updates. Each channel can be configured with specific rules and constraints:

- **Bundle (version) Control**: Specify which bundle (version) users receive
- **Platform Targeting**: Target specific platforms (iOS/Android)
- **Update Policies**: Control how updates are delivered
- **Device Restrictions**: Manage which devices can access updates

## Channel Configuration Options

- **public**: Set as default channel for new devices
- **disableAutoUpdateUnderNative**: Prevent updates when the device's native app version is newer than the update bundle (version) available in the channel (e.g., device is on native app version 1.2.3, but channel has bundle (version) 1.2.2)
- **disableAutoUpdate**: Control update behavior ("major", "minor", "version_number", "none")
- **ios/android**: Enable/disable for specific platforms
- **allow_device_self_set**: Let devices choose their channel
- **allow_emulator**: Allow updates on emulator devices
- **allow_dev**: Allow updates on development builds

## Best Practices

1. **Testing Channel**: Maintain a testing channel for internal validation
2. **Staged Rollout**: Use multiple channels for gradual update deployment
3. **Platform Separation**: Create separate channels for iOS and Android when needed
4. **Bundle (version) Control**: Use semantic versioning for clear update paths

## Endpoints

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Create or update a channel configuration.

#### Request Body

```typescript
type disable_update = "major" | "minor" | "version_number" | "none"
interface ChannelSet {
  app_id: string
  channel: string
  version?: string // bundle (version) name
  public?: boolean
  disableAutoUpdateUnderNative?: boolean
  disableAutoUpdate?: disable_update
  ios?: boolean
  android?: boolean
  allow_device_self_set?: boolean
  allow_emulator?: boolean
  allow_dev?: boolean
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "channel": "beta",
    "version": "1.2.0",
    "public": false,
    "disableAutoUpdate": "minor",
    "ios": true,
    "android": true,
    "allow_emulator": true
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/channel/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Retrieve channel information. Returns 50 channels per page.

#### Query Parameters
- `app_id`: Required. The ID of your app
- `page`: Optional. Page number for pagination
- `channel`: Optional. Specific channel name to retrieve

#### Example Requests

```bash
# Get all channels
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123"

# Get specific channel
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123&channel=beta"

# Get next page
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/channel/?app_id=app_123&page=1"
```

#### Response Type

```typescript
interface Channel {
    id: number;
    created_at: string;
    name: string;
    app_id: string;
    version: { // bundle (version) assigned to the channel
        id: number,
        name: string
    };
    created_by: string;
    updated_at: string;
    public: boolean;
    disableAutoUpdateUnderNative: boolean;
    disableAutoUpdate: boolean;
    allow_emulator: boolean;
    allow_dev: boolean;
}
```

In the response below, `version` refers to the bundle (version) assigned to the channel.

#### Example Response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "production",
      "app_id": "app_123",
      "version": {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "1.0.0"
      },
      "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "created_by": "user_123",
      "public": true,
      "disableAutoUpdateUnderNative": false,
      "disableAutoUpdate": false,
      "allow_emulator": false,
      "allow_dev": false
    }
  ]
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/channel/`

Delete a channel. Note that this will affect all devices using this channel.

#### Query Parameters

```typescript
interface Channel {
  channel: string
  app_id: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "channel": "beta"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/channel/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// Channel not found
{
  "error": "Channel not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid bundle (version) format
{
  "error": "Invalid version format. Use semantic versioning",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid update policy
{
  "error": "Invalid disableAutoUpdate value",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage channels",
  "status": "KO"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Beta Testing**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "beta",
  "version": "1.2.0-beta",
  "public": false,
  "allow_emulator": true,
  "allow_dev": true
}
```

2. **Production Rollout**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "production",
  "version": "1.2.0",
  "public": true,
  "disableAutoUpdate": "minor"
}
```

3. **Platform-Specific Updates**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "channel": "ios-hotfix",
  "version": "1.2.1",
  "ios": true,
  "android": false
}
```
