src/content/docs/docs/public-api/devices.mdx, before:

---
title: "Devices"
description: "Docs for managing devices via Capgo API, covering tracking, versioning, and channel assignments for app installations."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

Devices represent individual installations of your app that are managed by Capgo. The Devices API allows you to track and manage devices, including their versions, channels, and update status.

## Understanding Devices

Each device has unique characteristics and states:
- **Platform**: iOS or Android
- **Version**: Current bundle version and native build version
- **Environment**: Production or development, emulator or physical device
- **Channel**: Current update channel assignment
- **Custom ID**: Optional identifier for your own tracking purposes

## Best Practices

1. **Version Tracking**: Monitor device versions to ensure update adoption
2. **Channel Management**: Assign devices to appropriate channels based on testing needs
3. **Environment Awareness**: Handle different environments (prod/dev/emulator) appropriately
4. **Custom Identification**: Use custom IDs to integrate with your existing systems

## Endpoints

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Link a device to a specific version or channel.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface DeviceLink {
  app_id: string
  device_id: string
  version_id?: string // version name
  channel?: string    // channel name
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "device_id": "device_456",
    "channel": "beta"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/device/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Retrieve device information. Uses cursor-based pagination for efficient retrieval of large device lists.

#### Query Parameters
- `app_id`: Required. The ID of your app
- `device_id`: Optional. Specific device ID to retrieve a single device
- `cursor`: Optional. Cursor from previous response for pagination
- `limit`: Optional. Number of devices per page (default: 50)

#### Example Requests

```bash
# Get all devices (first page)
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123"

# Get specific device
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123&device_id=device_456"

# Get next page using cursor
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123&cursor=2024-01-01T00:00:00Z|device_456"
```

#### Response Type (List)

When requesting multiple devices (no `device_id` parameter):

```typescript
interface DeviceListResponse {
  data: Device[];
  nextCursor?: string;  // Pass this as 'cursor' param to get next page
  hasMore: boolean;     // true if more pages available
}

interface Device {
  updated_at: string;
  device_id: string;
  custom_id: string;
  version?: number;
  version_name: string | null;
  channel?: string;
  app_id: string;
  platform: "ios" | "android";
  plugin_version: string;
  os_version: string;
  version_build: string;
  is_prod: boolean;
  is_emulator: boolean;
}
```

#### Response Type (Single Device)

When requesting a specific device with `device_id` parameter, returns the device object directly:

```typescript
interface Device {
  updated_at: string;
  device_id: string;
  custom_id: string;
  version?: number;
  version_name: string | null;
  channel?: string;
  app_id: string;
  platform: "ios" | "android";
  plugin_version: string;
  os_version: string;
  version_build: string;
  is_prod: boolean;
  is_emulator: boolean;
}
```

#### Example Response (List)

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "device_id": "device_456",
      "custom_id": "test-device-1",
      "version": 1,
      "version_name": "1.0.0",
      "app_id": "app_123",
      "platform": "ios",
      "plugin_version": "5.0.0",
      "os_version": "17.0",
      "version_build": "1",
      "is_prod": true,
      "is_emulator": false,
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
    }
  ],
  "nextCursor": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z|device_456",
  "hasMore": true
}
```

#### Example Response (Single Device)

```json
{
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "custom_id": "test-device-1",
  "version": 1,
  "version_name": "1.0.0",
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "platform": "ios",
  "plugin_version": "5.0.0",
  "os_version": "17.0",
  "version_build": "1",
  "is_prod": true,
  "is_emulator": false,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "channel": "production"
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Unlink a device from its channel and version override. This resets the device to use its default channel.

#### Query Parameters

```typescript
interface Device {
  device_id: string
  app_id: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "device_id": "device_456"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/device/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// Device not found
{
  "error": "Device not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid version
{
  "error": "Version not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid channel
{
  "error": "Channel not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage devices",
  "status": "KO"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Beta Device Registration**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "channel": "beta"
}
```

2. **Version Override**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "version_id": "1.1.0"
}
```

3. **Reset to Default Channel**
```typescript
// Use DELETE endpoint to remove overrides
```

## Tips for Device Management

1. **Monitoring**: Regularly check device status and version distribution
2. **Testing**: Use custom IDs to identify test devices easily
3. **Troubleshooting**: Track device updates and channel assignments
4. **Version Control**: Monitor native app versions to ensure compatibility

Commit message:

Add data retention note to devices documentation for clarity and consistency

src/content/docs/docs/public-api/devices.mdx, after:

---
title: "Devices"
description: "Docs for managing devices via Capgo API, covering tracking, versioning, and channel assignments for app installations."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

Devices represent individual installations of your app that are managed by Capgo. The Devices API allows you to track and manage devices, including their versions, channels, and update status.

:::note[Data Retention]
Device data is retained for **90 days** from the last device activity. Devices that haven't connected to Capgo within this period will be automatically removed from the system. Active devices are continuously tracked as they check for updates.
:::

## Understanding Devices

Each device has unique characteristics and states:
- **Platform**: iOS or Android
- **Version**: Current bundle version and native build version
- **Environment**: Production or development, emulator or physical device
- **Channel**: Current update channel assignment
- **Custom ID**: Optional identifier for your own tracking purposes

## Best Practices

1. **Version Tracking**: Monitor device versions to ensure update adoption
2. **Channel Management**: Assign devices to appropriate channels based on testing needs
3. **Environment Awareness**: Handle different environments (prod/dev/emulator) appropriately
4. **Custom Identification**: Use custom IDs to integrate with your existing systems

## Endpoints

### POST

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Link a device to a specific version or channel.

#### Request Body

```typescript
interface DeviceLink {
  app_id: string
  device_id: string
  version_id?: string // version name
  channel?: string    // channel name
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "device_id": "device_456",
    "channel": "beta"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/device/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

### GET

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Retrieve device information. Uses cursor-based pagination for efficient retrieval of large device lists.

#### Query Parameters
- `app_id`: Required. The ID of your app
- `device_id`: Optional. Specific device ID to retrieve a single device
- `cursor`: Optional. Cursor from previous response for pagination
- `limit`: Optional. Number of devices per page (default: 50)

#### Example Requests

```bash
# Get all devices (first page)
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123"

# Get specific device
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123&device_id=device_456"

# Get next page using cursor
curl -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  "https://api.capgo.app/device/?app_id=app_123&cursor=2024-01-01T00:00:00Z|device_456"
```

#### Response Type (List)

When requesting multiple devices (no `device_id` parameter):

```typescript
interface DeviceListResponse {
  data: Device[];
  nextCursor?: string;  // Pass this as 'cursor' param to get next page
  hasMore: boolean;     // true if more pages available
}

interface Device {
  updated_at: string;
  device_id: string;
  custom_id: string;
  version?: number;
  version_name: string | null;
  channel?: string;
  app_id: string;
  platform: "ios" | "android";
  plugin_version: string;
  os_version: string;
  version_build: string;
  is_prod: boolean;
  is_emulator: boolean;
}
```

#### Response Type (Single Device)

When requesting a specific device with `device_id` parameter, returns the device object directly:

```typescript
interface Device {
  updated_at: string;
  device_id: string;
  custom_id: string;
  version?: number;
  version_name: string | null;
  channel?: string;
  app_id: string;
  platform: "ios" | "android";
  plugin_version: string;
  os_version: string;
  version_build: string;
  is_prod: boolean;
  is_emulator: boolean;
}
```

#### Example Response (List)

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "device_id": "device_456",
      "custom_id": "test-device-1",
      "version": 1,
      "version_name": "1.0.0",
      "app_id": "app_123",
      "platform": "ios",
      "plugin_version": "5.0.0",
      "os_version": "17.0",
      "version_build": "1",
      "is_prod": true,
      "is_emulator": false,
      "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
    }
  ],
  "nextCursor": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z|device_456",
  "hasMore": true
}
```

#### Example Response (Single Device)

```json
{
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "custom_id": "test-device-1",
  "version": 1,
  "version_name": "1.0.0",
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "platform": "ios",
  "plugin_version": "5.0.0",
  "os_version": "17.0",
  "version_build": "1",
  "is_prod": true,
  "is_emulator": false,
  "updated_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "channel": "production"
}
```

### DELETE

`https://api.capgo.app/device/`

Unlink a device from its channel and version override. This resets the device to use its default channel.

#### Query Parameters

```typescript
interface Device {
  device_id: string
  app_id: string
}
```

#### Example Request

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  -H "authorization: your-api-key" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "app_id": "app_123",
    "device_id": "device_456"
  }' \
  https://api.capgo.app/device/
```

#### Success Response

```json
{
  "status": "ok"
}
```

## Error Handling

Common error scenarios and their responses:

```json
// Device not found
{
  "error": "Device not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid version
{
  "error": "Version not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Invalid channel
{
  "error": "Channel not found",
  "status": "KO"
}

// Permission denied
{
  "error": "Insufficient permissions to manage devices",
  "status": "KO"
}
```

## Common Use Cases

1. **Beta Device Registration**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "channel": "beta"
}
```

2. **Version Override**
```typescript
{
  "app_id": "app_123",
  "device_id": "device_456",
  "version_id": "1.1.0"
}
```

3. **Reset to Default Channel**
```typescript
// Use DELETE endpoint to remove overrides
```

## Tips for Device Management

1. **Monitoring**: Regularly check device status and version distribution
2. **Testing**: Use custom IDs to identify test devices easily
3. **Troubleshooting**: Track device updates and channel assignments
4. **Version Control**: Monitor native app versions to ensure compatibility
