src/content/docs/docs/live-updates/integrations/azure-devops.mdx, before:

---
title: Azure DevOps Integration
description: "Learn how to integrate Capgo Live Updates with Azure DevOps Pipelines for automated deployment of your app updates."
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Integrate Capgo Live Updates with Azure DevOps Pipelines to automatically deploy your app updates whenever you push code changes. This guide covers setting up automated builds, testing, and deployment workflows.

## Prerequisites

Before setting up Azure DevOps integration, ensure you have:

- An Azure DevOps organization and project
- A Capgo account with an app configured
- Your app's source code in an Azure Repos Git repository
- Node.js and npm/yarn configured in your project

## Setting Up Azure DevOps Pipeline

### Step 1: Create Pipeline Variables

First, set up the necessary variables in your Azure DevOps project:

<Steps>

1. Navigate to your Azure DevOps project
2. Go to **Pipelines** → **Library** → **Variable groups**
3. Create a new variable group named `Capgo-Variables`
4. Add the following variables:

</Steps>

| Variable Name | Value | Secure |
|---------------|-------|---------|
| `CAPGO_TOKEN` | Your Capgo API token | ✅ Yes |

<Aside type="tip">

Get your Capgo API token from [web.capgo.app/apikeys](https://web.capgo.app/apikeys). Your app ID is already configured in your `capacitor.config.ts` file.

</Aside>

## Simple

Basic configuration that deploys to production on every push to the main branch:

```yaml
# Simple Azure DevOps Pipeline for Capgo Live Updates
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

jobs:
  - job: BuildAndDeploy
    displayName: 'Build and Deploy to Capgo'
    pool:
      vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
    
    steps:
      - task: NodeTool@0
        displayName: 'Setup Node.js'
        inputs:
          versionSpec: '22.x'
      
      - script: |
          npm ci
          npm run test
          npm run build
        displayName: 'Install, test and build'
      
      - script: |
          npm install -g @capgo/cli
          npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel production
        displayName: 'Deploy to Capgo'
```

## Advanced

### Feature Branch Deployments

Deploy feature branches to test channels for review and testing:

```yaml
# Feature branch deployment
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - feature/*

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

jobs:
  - job: DeployFeature
    displayName: 'Deploy Feature Branch'
    pool:
      vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
    condition: startsWith(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/feature/')
    
    steps:
      - task: NodeTool@0
        inputs:
          versionSpec: '22.x'
      
      - script: |
          npm ci
          npm run test
          npm run build
        displayName: 'Install, test and build'
      
      - script: |
          BRANCH_NAME=$(echo "$(Build.SourceBranchName)" | sed 's/[^a-zA-Z0-9-]/-/g')
          CHANNEL_NAME="feature-$BRANCH_NAME"
          npm install -g @capgo/cli
          npx @capgo/cli channel create $CHANNEL_NAME --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) || true
          npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel $CHANNEL_NAME
        displayName: 'Deploy to Feature Channel'
```

<Aside type="tip">

**Testing with Channels**: After deploying to a feature channel, you can test the update in your app by configuring it to use that specific channel. Learn more about [configuring channels in your app](/docs/live-updates/channels/#configuring-the-channel-in-your-app).

</Aside>

### Multi-Channel Configuration

Complete configuration with multiple environments and pull request deployments:

```yaml
# Advanced Azure DevOps Pipeline with Multiple Channels
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop

pr:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

stages:
  # Build stage
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'

  # Deploy to development
  - stage: DeployDev
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/develop'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployDevelopment
        environment: development
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - task: NodeTool@0
                  inputs:
                    versionSpec: '22.x'
                
                - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
                  inputs:
                    artifactName: 'app-build'
                    downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
                
                - script: |
                    npm install -g @capgo/cli
                    npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel development --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
                  displayName: 'Deploy to Development'

  # Deploy PR to test channel
  - stage: DeployPR
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.Reason'], 'PullRequest'))
    jobs:
      - job: DeployPRChannel
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
            inputs:
              artifactName: 'app-build'
              downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
          
          - script: |
              CHANNEL_NAME="pr-$(System.PullRequest.PullRequestNumber)"
              npm install -g @capgo/cli
              npx @capgo/cli channel create $CHANNEL_NAME --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) || true
              npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel $CHANNEL_NAME --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
            displayName: 'Deploy to PR Channel'

  # Deploy to production
  - stage: DeployProd
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/main'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployProduction
        environment: production
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - task: NodeTool@0
                  inputs:
                    versionSpec: '22.x'
                
                - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
                  inputs:
                    artifactName: 'app-build'
                    downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
                
                - script: |
                    npm install -g @capgo/cli
                    npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel production --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
                  displayName: 'Deploy to Production'
```

### Multi-Environment Deployment

For complex scenarios with multiple environments:

```yaml
# Extended pipeline with multiple environments
parameters:
  - name: deployEnvironment
    displayName: 'Deploy Environment'
    type: string
    default: 'staging'
    values:
      - staging
      - production

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables
  - name: channelName
    ${{ if eq(parameters.deployEnvironment, 'production') }}:
      value: 'production'
    ${{ else }}:
      value: 'staging'

stages:
  # Build stage
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'
  
  - stage: DeployStaging
    displayName: 'Deploy to Staging'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq('${{ parameters.deployEnvironment }}', 'staging'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployStaging
        displayName: 'Deploy to Staging Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: 'staging'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: 'staging'
  
  - stage: DeployProduction
    displayName: 'Deploy to Production'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq('${{ parameters.deployEnvironment }}', 'production'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployProduction
        displayName: 'Deploy to Production Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: 'production'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: 'production'
```

### Deployment Template (deploy-steps.yml)

Create a reusable template file `deploy-steps.yml`:

```yaml
# deploy-steps.yml
parameters:
  - name: channel
    type: string

steps:
  - task: NodeTool@0
    displayName: 'Install Node.js'
    inputs:
      versionSpec: '22.x'
  
  - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
    displayName: 'Download build artifacts'
    inputs:
      artifactName: 'app-build'
      downloadPath: '$(System.ArtifactsDirectory)'
  
  - script: |
      npm install -g @capgo/cli
    displayName: 'Install Capgo CLI'
  
  - script: |
      npx @capgo/cli bundle upload \
        --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) \
        --channel ${{ parameters.channel }} \
        --path $(System.ArtifactsDirectory)/app-build
    displayName: 'Upload to Capgo (${{ parameters.channel }})'
```

### Branch-Based Deployment Strategy

Configure different deployment strategies based on Git branches:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop
      - feature/*

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables
  - name: targetChannel
    ${{ if eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/main') }}:
      value: 'production'
    ${{ elseif eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/develop') }}:
      value: 'staging'
    ${{ else }}:
      value: 'development'

stages:
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'
  
  - stage: Deploy
    displayName: 'Deploy to $(targetChannel)'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: succeeded()
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployJob
        displayName: 'Deploy to $(targetChannel) Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: '$(targetChannel)'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: '$(targetChannel)'
```

## Security Best Practices

### Secure Variable Management

<Steps>

1. **Use Variable Groups**: Store sensitive data in Azure DevOps variable groups
2. **Mark as Secret**: Always mark API tokens and keys as secret variables
3. **Scope Access**: Limit variable group access to specific pipelines and users
4. **Rotate Keys**: Regularly rotate your Capgo API tokens

</Steps>

## Monitoring and Notifications

### Teams Integration

Add Microsoft Teams notifications to your pipeline:

```yaml
- task: ms-teams-deploy-card@1.4.1
  displayName: 'Notify Teams on Success'
  condition: succeeded()
  inputs:
    webhookUri: '$(TEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL)'
    title: 'Capgo Deployment Successful'
    text: 'App deployed to $(targetChannel) channel'
    themeColor: '00FF00'

- task: ms-teams-deploy-card@1.4.1
  displayName: 'Notify Teams on Failure'
  condition: failed()
  inputs:
    webhookUri: '$(TEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL)'
    title: 'Capgo Deployment Failed'
    text: 'Deployment to $(targetChannel) failed'
    themeColor: 'FF0000'
```

### Email Notifications

Configure email notifications for deployment status:

```yaml
- task: EmailReport@1
  displayName: 'Send Email Report'
  condition: always()
  inputs:
    sendMailConditionConfig: 'Always'
    subject: 'Capgo Deployment Report - $(Build.BuildNumber)'
    to: 'team@yourcompany.com'
    body: |
      Deployment Status: $(Agent.JobStatus)
      Channel: $(targetChannel)
      Build: $(Build.BuildNumber)
      Commit: $(Build.SourceVersion)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Pipeline fails with "Capgo CLI not found":**
```yaml
# Ensure global installation
- script: |
    npm install -g @capgo/cli
    which capgo || echo "Capgo CLI not found in PATH"
  displayName: 'Install and verify Capgo CLI'
```

**Authentication errors:**
```yaml
# Verify token is correctly set
- script: |
    echo "Token length: ${#CAPGO_TOKEN}"
    if [ -z "$CAPGO_TOKEN" ]; then
      echo "CAPGO_TOKEN is not set"
      exit 1
    fi
  displayName: 'Verify Capgo token'
  env:
    CAPGO_TOKEN: $(CAPGO_TOKEN)
```

**Build artifacts not found:**
```yaml
# List available artifacts for debugging
- script: |
    ls -la $(System.ArtifactsDirectory)
    find $(System.ArtifactsDirectory) -name "*.js" -o -name "*.html"
  displayName: 'Debug artifacts'
```

### Debug Pipeline

Add debugging steps to troubleshoot issues:

```yaml
- script: |
    echo "Build.SourceBranch: $(Build.SourceBranch)"
    echo "Build.BuildNumber: $(Build.BuildNumber)"
    echo "Target Channel: $(targetChannel)"
  displayName: 'Debug Pipeline Variables'

- script: |
    npx @capgo/cli app debug --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN)
  displayName: 'Debug Capgo App Status'
```

## Next Steps

- Learn about [Channels](/docs/live-updates/channels/) to manage different deployment environments
- Explore [Custom Storage](/docs/live-updates/custom-storage/) for advanced deployment scenarios
- Set up [Encryption](/docs/live-updates/encryption/) for secure deployments
- Configure [Update Behavior](/docs/live-updates/update-behavior/) to customize how updates are applied

With Azure DevOps integration, you can automate your Capgo deployments and ensure consistent, reliable updates to your mobile app users.

Commit message:

fix: integration doc add encryption in it

src/content/docs/docs/live-updates/integrations/azure-devops.mdx, after:

---
title: Azure DevOps Integration
description: "Learn how to integrate Capgo Live Updates with Azure DevOps Pipelines for automated deployment of your app updates."
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Integrate Capgo Live Updates with Azure DevOps Pipelines to automatically deploy your app updates whenever you push code changes. This guide covers setting up automated builds, testing, and deployment workflows.

## Prerequisites

Before setting up Azure DevOps integration, ensure you have:

- An Azure DevOps organization and project
- A Capgo account with an app configured
- Your app's source code in an Azure Repos Git repository
- Node.js and npm/yarn configured in your project

## Setting Up Azure DevOps Pipeline

### Step 1: Create Pipeline Variables

First, set up the necessary variables in your Azure DevOps project:

<Steps>

1. Navigate to your Azure DevOps project
2. Go to **Pipelines** → **Library** → **Variable groups**
3. Create a new variable group named `Capgo-Variables`
4. Add the following variables:

</Steps>

| Variable Name | Value | Secure |
|---------------|-------|---------|
| `CAPGO_TOKEN` | Your Capgo API token | ✅ Yes |

<Aside type="tip">

Get your Capgo API token from [web.capgo.app/apikeys](https://web.capgo.app/apikeys). Your app ID is already configured in your `capacitor.config.ts` file.

</Aside>

## Simple

Basic configuration that deploys to production on every push to the main branch:

```yaml
# Simple Azure DevOps Pipeline for Capgo Live Updates
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

jobs:
  - job: BuildAndDeploy
    displayName: 'Build and Deploy to Capgo'
    pool:
      vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
    
    steps:
      - task: NodeTool@0
        displayName: 'Setup Node.js'
        inputs:
          versionSpec: '22.x'
      
      - script: |
          npm ci
          npm run test
          npm run build
        displayName: 'Install, test and build'
      
      - script: |
          npm install -g @capgo/cli
          npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel production
        displayName: 'Deploy to Capgo'
```

## Advanced

### Feature Branch Deployments

Deploy feature branches to test channels for review and testing:

```yaml
# Feature branch deployment
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - feature/*

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

jobs:
  - job: DeployFeature
    displayName: 'Deploy Feature Branch'
    pool:
      vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
    condition: startsWith(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/feature/')
    
    steps:
      - task: NodeTool@0
        inputs:
          versionSpec: '22.x'
      
      - script: |
          npm ci
          npm run test
          npm run build
        displayName: 'Install, test and build'
      
      - script: |
          BRANCH_NAME=$(echo "$(Build.SourceBranchName)" | sed 's/[^a-zA-Z0-9-]/-/g')
          CHANNEL_NAME="feature-$BRANCH_NAME"
          npm install -g @capgo/cli
          npx @capgo/cli channel create $CHANNEL_NAME --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) || true
          npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel $CHANNEL_NAME
        displayName: 'Deploy to Feature Channel'
```

<Aside type="tip">

**Testing with Channels**: After deploying to a feature channel, you can test the update in your app by configuring it to use that specific channel. Learn more about [configuring channels in your app](/docs/live-updates/channels/#configuring-the-channel-in-your-app).

</Aside>

### Using Encryption

If you're using [Capgo's encryption feature](/docs/live-updates/encryption/), you'll need to store your private key securely in your CI/CD environment.

After [setting up encryption keys](/docs/live-updates/encryption/#setting-up-encryption) locally, add your private key to Azure DevOps variables:

```shell
# Display your private key content (copy this output)
cat .capgo_key_v2
```

Add this content as `CAPGO_PRIVATE_KEY` in your Azure DevOps variable group (mark as secret), then use it in pipelines:

```yaml
# Deploy with encryption
- script: |
    npm install -g @capgo/cli
    npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --key-data-v2 "$(CAPGO_PRIVATE_KEY)" --channel production
  displayName: 'Deploy to Capgo with Encryption'
```

<Aside type="caution">

**Security Best Practices:**
- Never commit the `.capgo_key_v2` file to version control
- Store the private key only in secure CI/CD secret management
- Use different keys for different environments

</Aside>

### Multi-Channel Configuration

Complete configuration with multiple environments and pull request deployments:

```yaml
# Advanced Azure DevOps Pipeline with Multiple Channels
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop

pr:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables

stages:
  # Build stage
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'

  # Deploy to development
  - stage: DeployDev
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/develop'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployDevelopment
        environment: development
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - task: NodeTool@0
                  inputs:
                    versionSpec: '22.x'
                
                - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
                  inputs:
                    artifactName: 'app-build'
                    downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
                
                - script: |
                    npm install -g @capgo/cli
                    npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel development --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
                  displayName: 'Deploy to Development'

  # Deploy PR to test channel
  - stage: DeployPR
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.Reason'], 'PullRequest'))
    jobs:
      - job: DeployPRChannel
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
            inputs:
              artifactName: 'app-build'
              downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
          
          - script: |
              CHANNEL_NAME="pr-$(System.PullRequest.PullRequestNumber)"
              npm install -g @capgo/cli
              npx @capgo/cli channel create $CHANNEL_NAME --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) || true
              npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel $CHANNEL_NAME --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
            displayName: 'Deploy to PR Channel'

  # Deploy to production
  - stage: DeployProd
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/main'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployProduction
        environment: production
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - task: NodeTool@0
                  inputs:
                    versionSpec: '22.x'
                
                - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
                  inputs:
                    artifactName: 'app-build'
                    downloadPath: '$(Pipeline.Workspace)'
                
                - script: |
                    npm install -g @capgo/cli
                    npx @capgo/cli bundle upload --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) --channel production --path $(Pipeline.Workspace)/app-build
                  displayName: 'Deploy to Production'
```

### Multi-Environment Deployment

For complex scenarios with multiple environments:

```yaml
# Extended pipeline with multiple environments
parameters:
  - name: deployEnvironment
    displayName: 'Deploy Environment'
    type: string
    default: 'staging'
    values:
      - staging
      - production

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables
  - name: channelName
    ${{ if eq(parameters.deployEnvironment, 'production') }}:
      value: 'production'
    ${{ else }}:
      value: 'staging'

stages:
  # Build stage
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'
  
  - stage: DeployStaging
    displayName: 'Deploy to Staging'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq('${{ parameters.deployEnvironment }}', 'staging'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployStaging
        displayName: 'Deploy to Staging Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: 'staging'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: 'staging'
  
  - stage: DeployProduction
    displayName: 'Deploy to Production'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: and(succeeded(), eq('${{ parameters.deployEnvironment }}', 'production'))
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployProduction
        displayName: 'Deploy to Production Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: 'production'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: 'production'
```

### Deployment Template (deploy-steps.yml)

Create a reusable template file `deploy-steps.yml`:

```yaml
# deploy-steps.yml
parameters:
  - name: channel
    type: string

steps:
  - task: NodeTool@0
    displayName: 'Install Node.js'
    inputs:
      versionSpec: '22.x'
  
  - task: DownloadBuildArtifacts@0
    displayName: 'Download build artifacts'
    inputs:
      artifactName: 'app-build'
      downloadPath: '$(System.ArtifactsDirectory)'
  
  - script: |
      npm install -g @capgo/cli
    displayName: 'Install Capgo CLI'
  
  - script: |
      npx @capgo/cli bundle upload \
        --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN) \
        --channel ${{ parameters.channel }} \
        --path $(System.ArtifactsDirectory)/app-build
    displayName: 'Upload to Capgo (${{ parameters.channel }})'
```

### Branch-Based Deployment Strategy

Configure different deployment strategies based on Git branches:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - main
      - develop
      - feature/*

variables:
  - group: Capgo-Variables
  - name: targetChannel
    ${{ if eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/main') }}:
      value: 'production'
    ${{ elseif eq(variables['Build.SourceBranch'], 'refs/heads/develop') }}:
      value: 'staging'
    ${{ else }}:
      value: 'development'

stages:
  - stage: Build
    jobs:
      - job: BuildApp
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        steps:
          - task: NodeTool@0
            inputs:
              versionSpec: '22.x'
          
          - script: |
              npm ci
              npm run test
              npm run build
            displayName: 'Install, test and build'
          
          - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
            inputs:
              pathToPublish: 'dist'
              artifactName: 'app-build'
  
  - stage: Deploy
    displayName: 'Deploy to $(targetChannel)'
    dependsOn: Build
    condition: succeeded()
    jobs:
      - deployment: DeployJob
        displayName: 'Deploy to $(targetChannel) Channel'
        pool:
          vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'
        environment: '$(targetChannel)'
        strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - template: deploy-steps.yml
                  parameters:
                    channel: '$(targetChannel)'
```

## Security Best Practices

### Secure Variable Management

<Steps>

1. **Use Variable Groups**: Store sensitive data in Azure DevOps variable groups
2. **Mark as Secret**: Always mark API tokens and keys as secret variables
3. **Scope Access**: Limit variable group access to specific pipelines and users
4. **Rotate Keys**: Regularly rotate your Capgo API tokens

</Steps>

## Monitoring and Notifications

### Teams Integration

Add Microsoft Teams notifications to your pipeline:

```yaml
- task: ms-teams-deploy-card@1.4.1
  displayName: 'Notify Teams on Success'
  condition: succeeded()
  inputs:
    webhookUri: '$(TEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL)'
    title: 'Capgo Deployment Successful'
    text: 'App deployed to $(targetChannel) channel'
    themeColor: '00FF00'

- task: ms-teams-deploy-card@1.4.1
  displayName: 'Notify Teams on Failure'
  condition: failed()
  inputs:
    webhookUri: '$(TEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL)'
    title: 'Capgo Deployment Failed'
    text: 'Deployment to $(targetChannel) failed'
    themeColor: 'FF0000'
```

### Email Notifications

Configure email notifications for deployment status:

```yaml
- task: EmailReport@1
  displayName: 'Send Email Report'
  condition: always()
  inputs:
    sendMailConditionConfig: 'Always'
    subject: 'Capgo Deployment Report - $(Build.BuildNumber)'
    to: 'team@yourcompany.com'
    body: |
      Deployment Status: $(Agent.JobStatus)
      Channel: $(targetChannel)
      Build: $(Build.BuildNumber)
      Commit: $(Build.SourceVersion)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Pipeline fails with "Capgo CLI not found":**
```yaml
# Ensure global installation
- script: |
    npm install -g @capgo/cli
    which capgo || echo "Capgo CLI not found in PATH"
  displayName: 'Install and verify Capgo CLI'
```

**Authentication errors:**
```yaml
# Verify token is correctly set
- script: |
    echo "Token length: ${#CAPGO_TOKEN}"
    if [ -z "$CAPGO_TOKEN" ]; then
      echo "CAPGO_TOKEN is not set"
      exit 1
    fi
  displayName: 'Verify Capgo token'
  env:
    CAPGO_TOKEN: $(CAPGO_TOKEN)
```

**Build artifacts not found:**
```yaml
# List available artifacts for debugging
- script: |
    ls -la $(System.ArtifactsDirectory)
    find $(System.ArtifactsDirectory) -name "*.js" -o -name "*.html"
  displayName: 'Debug artifacts'
```

### Debug Pipeline

Add debugging steps to troubleshoot issues:

```yaml
- script: |
    echo "Build.SourceBranch: $(Build.SourceBranch)"
    echo "Build.BuildNumber: $(Build.BuildNumber)"
    echo "Target Channel: $(targetChannel)"
  displayName: 'Debug Pipeline Variables'

- script: |
    npx @capgo/cli app debug --apikey $(CAPGO_TOKEN)
  displayName: 'Debug Capgo App Status'
```

## Next Steps

- Learn about [Channels](/docs/live-updates/channels/) to manage different deployment environments
- Explore [Custom Storage](/docs/live-updates/custom-storage/) for advanced deployment scenarios
- Set up [Encryption](/docs/live-updates/encryption/) for secure deployments
- Configure [Update Behavior](/docs/live-updates/update-behavior/) to customize how updates are applied

With Azure DevOps integration, you can automate your Capgo deployments and ensure consistent, reliable updates to your mobile app users.
