src/content/docs/docs/plugin/local-dev/capacitor-updater.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using the capacitor updater with self-hosted capgo"
description: "How to use the capacitor updater with self-hosted Capgo, be fully autonomous with your own instance of Capgo"
sidebar:
    order: 4
---

## What this tutorial will cover?

This tutorial will show how to use capacitor updater in a dev environment with self hosted capgo

## Requirements

 1. [Cloned capgo](https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo)

## Getting started

To use the capacitor updater with self-hosted capgo edit the `capacitor.config.ts` from your app directory and set it like this:

```ts
const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  appId: 'com.demo.app',
  appName: 'demoApp',
  webDir: 'dist',
  bundledWebRuntime: false,
  plugins: {
    CapacitorUpdater : {
      statsUrl: "http://localhost:54321/functions/v1/stats",
      channelUrl: "http://localhost:54321/functions/v1/channel_self",
      updateUrl: "http://localhost:54321/functions/v1/updates"
    },
  },
};
```

This will enable you to use local capgo in development. However, by default, this is not enough.

In Android enabling [plaintext communication](https://developer.android.com/topic/security/risks/cleartext) is required as by default SSL is disabled in local.
This can be achived by modifying [AndroidManifest.xml](https://github.com/Cap-go/capacitor-updater/blob/main/android/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml) and adding `android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"` in the `application` tag
A full example of this change can be seen [here](https://gist.github.com/WcaleNieWolny/061a015acdebe35eaf3afd7030797701)

Since by default, Android does not allow `http` capgo has implemented a check for http [here](https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo/blob/4cce6c0707d745faa2afbab643e636bad927c602/supabase/functions/updates/index.ts#L396)
This code might not be always here, but for now a change to this line is required to get updates working  
This line should look something like this:
```ts
    if (!signedURL || (signedURL.startsWith('http://') || signedURL.startsWith('https://'))) {
```

:::danger
⚠️ Do not commit `supabase/functions/updates/index.ts` into the remote repo\
This code is here [on purpose](https://github.com/Cap-go/capacitor-updater/issues/37#issuecomment-1684916354)
:::

There also could be a problem that prevents the android app from connecting. If you do not see any requests being send to edge functions run
```bash
adb reverse tcp:54321 tcp:54321
```

Commit message:

fix: explain for https required

src/content/docs/docs/plugin/local-dev/capacitor-updater.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using the capacitor updater with self-hosted capgo"
description: "How to use the capacitor updater with self-hosted Capgo, be fully autonomous with your own instance of Capgo"
sidebar:
    order: 4
---

## What this tutorial will cover?

This tutorial will show how to use capacitor updater in a dev environment with self hosted capgo

## Requirements

 1. [Cloned capgo](https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo)

## Getting started

To use the capacitor updater with self-hosted capgo edit the `capacitor.config.ts` from your app directory and set it like this:

```ts
const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  appId: 'com.demo.app',
  appName: 'demoApp',
  webDir: 'dist',
  bundledWebRuntime: false,
  plugins: {
    CapacitorUpdater : {
      statsUrl: "https://localhost:54321/functions/v1/stats",
      channelUrl: "https://localhost:54321/functions/v1/channel_self",
      updateUrl: "https://localhost:54321/functions/v1/updates"
    },
  },
};
```

This will enable you to use local capgo in development. However, by default, this is not enough.

> By default both IOS and Android expect you to use HTTPS, you need to use a tool like Ngrock or localcan to proxy your API in https.

There is a way in Android to enable [plaintext communication](https://developer.android.com/topic/security/risks/cleartext).
This can be achived by modifying [AndroidManifest.xml](https://github.com/Cap-go/capacitor-updater/blob/main/android/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml) and adding `android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"` in the `application` tag
A full example of this change can be seen [here](https://gist.github.com/WcaleNieWolny/061a015acdebe35eaf3afd7030797701)

There also could be a problem that prevents the android app from connecting. If you do not see any requests being send to edge functions run
```bash
adb reverse tcp:54321 tcp:54321
```
