src/content/docs/docs/webapp/2fa-enforcement.mdx, before:

---
title: "2FA Enforcement"
description: "Learn how to enforce Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) for all members of your organization to enhance security and protect your apps."
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) enforcement allows organization administrators to require all members to have 2FA enabled on their accounts before accessing organization resources. This ensures a higher level of security for your apps and data.

## Overview

When 2FA enforcement is enabled for an organization:
- All members must have 2FA enabled on their Capgo account
- Members without 2FA will be denied access to the organization's apps
- Both the web dashboard and CLI will enforce this requirement
- New members must enable 2FA before they can access organization resources

<Aside type="tip">

2FA enforcement is particularly important for:
- Enterprise organizations with strict security policies
- Teams handling sensitive user data
- Organizations in regulated industries (healthcare, finance, etc.)
- Companies requiring SOC 2 or ISO 27001 compliance

</Aside>

## How It Works

### Web Dashboard
When you try to access an organization that requires 2FA, and you don't have it enabled:
1. You'll see an access denied message
2. You'll be directed to enable 2FA in your account settings
3. Once enabled, you can access the organization normally

### CLI Access
When using the Capgo CLI to interact with apps in an organization that requires 2FA:

```
🔐 Access Denied: Two-Factor Authentication Required
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

This organization requires all members to have 2FA enabled.

To regain access:
  1. Go to https://web.capgo.app/settings/account
  2. Enable Two-Factor Authentication on your account
  3. Try your command again
```

## Enabling 2FA Enforcement

<Aside type="caution">

Before enabling 2FA enforcement:
- Ensure you have 2FA enabled on your own account
- Notify all organization members to enable 2FA
- Members without 2FA will immediately lose access

</Aside>

### Via Web Dashboard

<Steps>

1. Navigate to your organization settings
2. Go to the **Security** section
3. Toggle **Require 2FA for all members**
4. Confirm the action

</Steps>

### Via CLI

You can enable 2FA enforcement using the Capgo CLI:

```shell
# Enable 2FA enforcement for an organization
npx @capgo/cli organisation set YOUR_ORG_ID --enforce-2fa

# Disable 2FA enforcement
npx @capgo/cli organisation set YOUR_ORG_ID --no-enforce-2fa
```

When enabling via CLI, you'll be shown:
- Which members don't have 2FA enabled
- A warning if you yourself don't have 2FA enabled
- A confirmation prompt before applying the change

## Checking Member 2FA Status

### Via CLI

You can list all organization members and their 2FA status:

```shell
npx @capgo/cli organisation members YOUR_ORG_ID
```

This will display:
- Member email and role
- Whether they have 2FA enabled
- A summary of how many members need to enable 2FA

### Via Web Dashboard

In your organization settings, you can see whether each member has 2FA enabled.

## Setting Up 2FA on Your Account

If you need to enable 2FA on your account, see our [Two-Factor Authentication setup guide](/docs/webapp/mfa/).

## Best Practices

### Before Enabling Enforcement
- **Communicate in advance**: Give members at least a week's notice before enabling enforcement
- **Provide support**: Share the [2FA setup guide](/docs/webapp/mfa/) with your team
- **Check readiness**: Use `npx @capgo/cli organisation members` to see who still needs to enable 2FA

### After Enabling Enforcement
- **Monitor access issues**: Be available to help members who get locked out
- **Keep backup codes**: Remind members to save their 2FA backup codes
- **Review regularly**: Periodically check that all members maintain 2FA

### For CI/CD Pipelines
- **Use API keys**: CI/CD systems should use API keys, not user accounts
- **API key owners**: Ensure the user who created CI/CD API keys has 2FA enabled
- **Rotate keys**: Regularly rotate API keys used in automated systems

## Troubleshooting

### "Access Denied: Two-Factor Authentication Required"

**Problem**: You're seeing this error when trying to access an organization.

**Solution**:
1. Go to [Account Settings](https://web.capgo.app/settings/account)
2. Enable 2FA on your account
3. Try accessing the organization again

### "Cannot enable 2FA enforcement"

**Problem**: You can't enable 2FA enforcement for your organization.

**Solution**:
- Ensure you have `super_admin` rights in the organization
- Enable 2FA on your own account first
- Contact support if the issue persists

### CLI Commands Failing

**Problem**: CLI commands fail with 2FA-related errors.

**Solution**:
- Verify your API key is valid: `npx @capgo/cli doctor`
- Ensure the API key owner has 2FA enabled
- Re-authenticate if using login-based auth: `npx @capgo/cli login`

## Compliance

2FA enforcement helps your organization meet various compliance requirements:

| Standard | Requirement | How 2FA Helps |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| **SOC 2** | Access controls | Ensures strong authentication for all users |
| **ISO 27001** | Information security | Adds a layer of identity verification |
| **HIPAA** | Access management | Protects against unauthorized access |
| **GDPR** | Data protection | Reduces risk of account compromise |
| **PCI DSS** | Authentication controls | Meets multi-factor authentication requirements |

## Next Steps

- [Set up 2FA on your account](/docs/webapp/mfa/)
- [Learn about organization management](/docs/webapp/organization-system/)
- [Configure API keys for CI/CD](/docs/webapp/api-keys/)

Commit message:

Refactor blog titles and descriptions for clarity and conciseness; enhance API key security documentation with encryption and expiration details; introduce organization security policies including 2FA enforcement and password policies; update absolute URLs for structured data in about and enterprise pages.

src/content/docs/docs/webapp/2fa-enforcement.mdx, after:

---
title: "2FA Enforcement"
description: "Learn how to enforce Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) for all members of your organization to enhance security and protect your apps."
sidebar:
  order: 11
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<Aside type="tip">

This page covers 2FA enforcement in detail. For an overview of all organization security features including password policies and API key controls, see [Organization Security](/docs/webapp/organization-security/).

</Aside>

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) enforcement allows organization administrators to require all members to have 2FA enabled on their accounts before accessing organization resources. This ensures a higher level of security for your apps and data.

## Overview

When 2FA enforcement is enabled for an organization:
- All members must have 2FA enabled on their Capgo account
- Members without 2FA will be denied access to the organization's apps
- Both the web dashboard and CLI will enforce this requirement
- New members must enable 2FA before they can access organization resources

<Aside type="tip">

2FA enforcement is particularly important for:
- Enterprise organizations with strict security policies
- Teams handling sensitive user data
- Organizations in regulated industries (healthcare, finance, etc.)
- Companies requiring SOC 2 or ISO 27001 compliance

</Aside>

## How It Works

### Web Dashboard
When you try to access an organization that requires 2FA, and you don't have it enabled:
1. You'll see an access denied message
2. You'll be directed to enable 2FA in your account settings
3. Once enabled, you can access the organization normally

### CLI Access
When using the Capgo CLI to interact with apps in an organization that requires 2FA:

```
🔐 Access Denied: Two-Factor Authentication Required
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

This organization requires all members to have 2FA enabled.

To regain access:
  1. Go to https://web.capgo.app/settings/account
  2. Enable Two-Factor Authentication on your account
  3. Try your command again
```

## Enabling 2FA Enforcement

<Aside type="caution">

Before enabling 2FA enforcement:
- Ensure you have 2FA enabled on your own account
- Notify all organization members to enable 2FA
- Members without 2FA will immediately lose access

</Aside>

### Via Web Dashboard

<Steps>

1. Navigate to your organization settings
2. Go to the **Security** section
3. Toggle **Require 2FA for all members**
4. Confirm the action

</Steps>

### Via CLI

You can enable 2FA enforcement using the Capgo CLI:

```shell
# Enable 2FA enforcement for an organization
npx @capgo/cli organisation set YOUR_ORG_ID --enforce-2fa

# Disable 2FA enforcement
npx @capgo/cli organisation set YOUR_ORG_ID --no-enforce-2fa
```

When enabling via CLI, you'll be shown:
- Which members don't have 2FA enabled
- A warning if you yourself don't have 2FA enabled
- A confirmation prompt before applying the change

## Checking Member 2FA Status

### Via CLI

You can list all organization members and their 2FA status:

```shell
npx @capgo/cli organisation members YOUR_ORG_ID
```

This will display:
- Member email and role
- Whether they have 2FA enabled
- A summary of how many members need to enable 2FA

### Via Web Dashboard

In your organization settings, you can see whether each member has 2FA enabled.

## Setting Up 2FA on Your Account

If you need to enable 2FA on your account, see our [Two-Factor Authentication setup guide](/docs/webapp/mfa/).

## Best Practices

### Before Enabling Enforcement
- **Communicate in advance**: Give members at least a week's notice before enabling enforcement
- **Provide support**: Share the [2FA setup guide](/docs/webapp/mfa/) with your team
- **Check readiness**: Use `npx @capgo/cli organisation members` to see who still needs to enable 2FA

### After Enabling Enforcement
- **Monitor access issues**: Be available to help members who get locked out
- **Keep backup codes**: Remind members to save their 2FA backup codes
- **Review regularly**: Periodically check that all members maintain 2FA

### For CI/CD Pipelines
- **Use API keys**: CI/CD systems should use API keys, not user accounts
- **API key owners**: Ensure the user who created CI/CD API keys has 2FA enabled
- **Rotate keys**: Regularly rotate API keys used in automated systems

## Troubleshooting

### "Access Denied: Two-Factor Authentication Required"

**Problem**: You're seeing this error when trying to access an organization.

**Solution**:
1. Go to [Account Settings](https://web.capgo.app/settings/account)
2. Enable 2FA on your account
3. Try accessing the organization again

### "Cannot enable 2FA enforcement"

**Problem**: You can't enable 2FA enforcement for your organization.

**Solution**:
- Ensure you have `super_admin` rights in the organization
- Enable 2FA on your own account first
- Contact support if the issue persists

### CLI Commands Failing

**Problem**: CLI commands fail with 2FA-related errors.

**Solution**:
- Verify your API key is valid: `npx @capgo/cli doctor`
- Ensure the API key owner has 2FA enabled
- Re-authenticate if using login-based auth: `npx @capgo/cli login`

## Compliance

2FA enforcement helps your organization meet various compliance requirements:

| Standard | Requirement | How 2FA Helps |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| **SOC 2** | Access controls | Ensures strong authentication for all users |
| **ISO 27001** | Information security | Adds a layer of identity verification |
| **HIPAA** | Access management | Protects against unauthorized access |
| **GDPR** | Data protection | Reduces risk of account compromise |
| **PCI DSS** | Authentication controls | Meets multi-factor authentication requirements |

## Next Steps

- [Set up 2FA on your account](/docs/webapp/mfa/)
- [Learn about organization management](/docs/webapp/organization-system/)
- [Configure API keys for CI/CD](/docs/webapp/api-keys/)
