src/content/docs/docs/webapp/devices.mdx, before:

---
title: "Devices"
description: "A comprehensive guide on utilizing the devices page to manage and configure your devices effectively, including filtering options and detailed configuration settings for individual devices."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

:::note[Data Retention]
Device data is retained for **90 days** from the last device activity. Devices that haven't connected to Capgo within this period will be automatically removed from the list. Active devices are continuously tracked as they check for updates.
:::

## Show the list of all devices
First, let's take a look at the devices page. You can access it by [clicking on your app](/docs/webapp/main-page) and then [clicking on the devices tab](/docs/webapp/main-app-page).

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/devices.webp" alt="devices list" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## Show only developer devices
You might want to show only the overwritten devices (Devices that have a [custom channel](/docs/plugin/api/#setchannel) or a custom version)
To do that click on `Filters` and then on `Override`. It should look something like this:

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/overwrite-filter.webp" alt="filter devices" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## Configuring a device

To configure a specific device click on it in the table and then you should see something like this:

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/device-specific.webp" alt="show one device" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

First the `Custom ID`. This is a very useful field that helps you connect the device to an ID you can recognize for your own users. 

Use it to easily identify which device belongs to which user. 

You can set it from the WebUI or from the device with `CapacitorUpdater.setCustomId({ customId: user });`

Next the force version. If this is set then this device will **ALWAYS** receive this version. It takes precedence over the channel.

Lastly the custom channel. If this is set then this device will not care about the public (default) channel and just use this one.

Commit message:

fix: update doc and screenshot of webapp

src/content/docs/docs/webapp/devices.mdx, after:

---
title: "Devices"
description: "A comprehensive guide on utilizing the devices page to manage and configure your devices effectively, including filtering options and detailed configuration settings for individual devices."
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

:::note[Data Retention]
Device data is retained for **90 days** from the last device activity. Devices that haven't connected to Capgo within this period will be automatically removed from the list. Active devices are continuously tracked as they check for updates.
:::

## Show the list of all devices
First, let's take a look at the devices page. You can access it by [clicking on your app](/docs/webapp/main-page) and then [clicking on the devices tab](/docs/webapp/main-app-page).

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/devices.webp" alt="devices list" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

1. **Devices tab** - Click this tab in the navigation bar to access the devices page
2. **Filters** - Click to filter devices by:
   - **Override** - Show only devices that have a [custom channel](/docs/plugin/api/#setchannel) or a custom version
   - **Custom ID** - Show only devices with a custom identifier set

## Configuring a device

To configure a specific device click on it in the table and then you should see something like this:

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/device-specific.webp" alt="show one device" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

1. **Information** - View device details including Device ID, Last update, Platform, Plugin version, Version, Version builtin, OS version, and whether it's a Production app
2. **Deployments** - View the deployment history for this device
3. **Logs** - View logs associated with this device
4. **Channel override** - Override the channel for this specific device. If set, this device will not use the public (default) channel and will only receive updates from the selected channel

### Custom ID

The `Custom ID` is a very useful field that helps you connect the device to an ID you can recognize for your own users.

Use it to easily identify which device belongs to which user.

Custom ID can only be set from the device itself using `CapacitorUpdater.setCustomId({ customId: user });`
