src/content/docs/docs/webapp/payment.mdx, before:

---
title: "Payment system"
description: "Managing payments in your capgo account."
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

## What is this about?

This page aims to answer some questions about the payment system in capgo.

#### Q: How can I upgrade my capgo plan?
A: You can upgrade your capgo plan by going to [the settings](/docs/webapp/settings/#how-to-get-to-the-settings-page) and clicking on the **Plans** button.

<figure><img src="/plans-button.webp" alt="Choose plan" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Then you can select the plan that best fits your needs and click on **Subscribe**

<figure><img src="/plans-subscribe.webp" alt="Subscribe to plan" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Then a stripe page will open up. There, you can enter your payment information.

<figure><img src="/plans-stripe.webp" alt="Stripe portal" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

#### Q: Are payments secure?
A: Yes, payments are fully managed by stripe. Capgo never gets access to your credit card details. Stripe takes security very seriously. [Learn more about stripe security policy](https://stripe.com/docs/security/)

#### Q: Will capgo automatically upgrade my plan when I exceed the limit?
A: No, capgo will never change your plan.

#### Q: Will cagpo send me an email when my plan is near its limits?
A: Yes, capgo will send you an email informing you about the usage.

#### Q: Will the plan I purchase affect the organizations I am invited to?
A: No, the plan will only affect the apps you own. 
If you are invited to an organization, the owner of said organization must purchase a separate plan.

#### Q: What if I need a more tailored plan?
A: [Please contact capgo's support directly](/docs/getting-help#support-by-chat)

#### Q: What is the refund policy for capgo?
A:  A refund policy can be found [here](https://capgo.app/return/)

Commit message:

📝 (feat): Improve documentation for orgs + new blog post

src/content/docs/docs/webapp/payment.mdx, after:

---
title: "Payment system"
description: "Managing payments in your capgo account."
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

## What is this about?

This page aims to answer some questions about the payment system in capgo.

#### Q: How can I upgrade my capgo plan?
A: You can upgrade your capgo plan by going to [the settings](/docs/webapp/settings/#how-to-get-to-the-settings-page) and clicking on the **Plans** button.

<figure><img src="/plans-button.webp" alt="Choose plan" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Then you can select the plan that best fits your needs and click on **Subscribe**

<figure><img src="/plans-subscribe.webp" alt="Subscribe to plan" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Then a stripe page will open up. There, you can enter your payment information.

<figure><img src="/plans-stripe.webp" alt="Stripe portal" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

#### Q: Are payments secure?
A: Yes, payments are fully managed by stripe. Capgo never gets access to your credit card details. Stripe takes security very seriously. [Learn more about stripe security policy](https://stripe.com/docs/security/)

#### Q: Will capgo automatically upgrade my plan when I exceed the limit?
A: No, capgo will never change your plan.

#### Q: Will cagpo send me an email when my plan is near its limits?
A: Yes, capgo will send you an email informing you about the usage.

#### Q: Will the plan I purchase affect the organizations I am invited to?
A: No, the plan will only affect the organization you have currently selected. 
Please refeer to [the organization documentation](/docs/webapp/organization-system/#q-how-is-billing-done-within-orgs).

#### Q: What if I need a more tailored plan?
A: [Please contact capgo's support directly](/docs/getting-help#support-by-chat)

#### Q: What is the refund policy for capgo?
A:  A refund policy can be found [here](https://capgo.app/return/)
