src/content/docs/docs/plugin/know-issues.mdx, before:

---
title: "Known issues"
description: "Known issues with Capacitor and CapGo"
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Ionic live reload

* When you develop, if you use the Ionic live reload feature from the CLI, it will override the plugin, so you will never see your update.

## Quasar live reload

* It uses the same system as ionic under the hood, so you will not see your updates.

## Update fail

* Big app update (> 20mb) will have a big percentage of users who doesn't get the last version.  In the past, users needed to keep the app open until the download was done, now we use background download, but it's still limited to a few seconds.

## Android

### Self-hosted

Then you self-host update, be mindful you cannot use "HTTP" endpoint it's again the security rule of Android apps, if you want to try it, follow this guide:

<LinkCard
	title="How to allow all Network connection types HTTP and HTTPS in Android (9) Pie?"
	href="https://stackoverflow.com/a/51902630/5511370"
/>

### Unzip 

Unzip issue: DEFLATED entries can have EXT descriptor

If you zipped your bundle with something different than the CLI, the format or your zip could be incorrect, please use the CLI command `npx @capgo/cli zip BUNDLE_FOLDER`.

This is a know issue of Java:

<LinkCard
	title="Unzip issue: DEFLATED entries can have EXT descriptor"
	href="https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8143613"
/>


## Build

### Clearfix issue

* If you have issue with usesCleartextTraffic, it's because the plugin follows the good practice recommended by sonar cloud, in 90% of the case it will work, but with some plugins that cause issue.

To fix it, add in `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` in the `<application>` key :

```xml
tools:replace="android:usesCleartextTraffic"
xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
```

## IOS

## Build

### GetConfig

This problem happens when your app uses capacitor 3 with Capgo 4, upgrade your app to v4 or use Capgo v3 (not recommended it's deprecated and soon will not work)

<figure><img src="/issue_get_config.webp" alt="" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## CLI

if your CLI has trouble doing the basic action,

Check if **appId** and **appName** are present in your **capacitor.config.ts**

Follow the guidance of the official doc:

<LinkCard
	title="Capacitor Configuration"
	href="https://capacitorjs.com/docs/config"
/>

Commit message:

doc: add network perm text

src/content/docs/docs/plugin/know-issues.mdx, after:

---
title: "Known issues"
description: "Known issues with Capacitor and CapGo"
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Ionic live reload

* When you develop, if you use the Ionic live reload feature from the CLI, it will override the plugin, so you will never see your update.

## Quasar live reload

* It uses the same system as ionic under the hood, so you will not see your updates.

## Update fail

* Big app update (> 20mb) will have a big percentage of users who doesn't get the last version.  In the past, users needed to keep the app open until the download was done, now we use background download, but it's still limited to a few seconds.

## Android

### Self-hosted

Then you self-host update, be mindful you cannot use "HTTP" endpoint it's again the security rule of Android apps, if you want to try it, follow this guide:

<LinkCard
	title="How to allow all Network connection types HTTP and HTTPS in Android (9) Pie?"
	href="https://stackoverflow.com/a/51902630/5511370"
/>

### Unzip 

Unzip issue: DEFLATED entries can have EXT descriptor

If you zipped your bundle with something different than the CLI, the format or your zip could be incorrect, please use the CLI command `npx @capgo/cli zip BUNDLE_FOLDER`.

This is a know issue of Java:

<LinkCard
	title="Unzip issue: DEFLATED entries can have EXT descriptor"
	href="https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8143613"
/>


## Build

### Clearfix issue

* If you have issue with usesCleartextTraffic, it's because the plugin follows the good practice recommended by sonar cloud, in 90% of the case it will work, but with some plugins that cause issue.

To fix it, add in `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` in the `<application>` key :

```xml
tools:replace="android:usesCleartextTraffic"
xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
```

## IOS

### Network permissions

When using local server for testing update, the app will ask for network permission, it's a normal behavior, it's not the case when you use a remote server.


## Both OS

When doing manual mode update, some event are not easy to catch, like update fail is trigger just before your JS code reload, so you will not be able to catch it.

One alternative is to list the bundles and check if one is in error stats to know if the update fail.

We need to find a better way to handle this in the future, but it's not a priority, since auto mode is the recommended way to do update.

PR are welcome to help us improve this.

## CLI

if your CLI has trouble doing the basic action,

Check if **appId** and **appName** are present in your **capacitor.config.ts**

Follow the guidance of the official doc:

<LinkCard
	title="Capacitor Configuration"
	href="https://capacitorjs.com/docs/config"
/>
