content/blog/alternative-to-appflow.md, before:

---
slug: "alternative-to-appflow"
title: Alternative to Ionic Appflow
description: Ionic Appflow is the best complete set of tool for your app, sadly they
  price is not made for all, Capgo is here to let you handle OTA update at fair price.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://twitter.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-03-02
updated_at: 2022-03-02
head_image: "/appflow_alt.webp"
head_image_alt: Appflow alternative illustration
tag: Alternatives
published: true
next_blog: ""

---

The only other alternative was Microsoft App Center, but they shut down support for apps running on Cordova.

If you are a solo developer, or a small team of developers, you will find that Ionic AppFlow is not the best Price for you.

Like you, I was complaining about it, Ionic understands the complaint, but there aren't open to change the pricing, tiny teams are outside they focus.

Back in December 2021, I decided to try to fix my biggest pain in my Capacitor JS development workflow.

After one month of trying, I found a solution to download from one URL a zip and replace the source of the app.

That where I started to work on Capgo as AppFlow alternative.

The goal is to provide a simple and easy to use solution to push code updates to Capacitor JavaScript apps.

No Native build, not big toolbox like Ionic, just live updates, for the market they don't address, Us.

I contacted them to share with them what I was doing, and we found a business friendship agreement.

I build for the maker, they build for the big business :)

You are welcome to join the community to build together, I use it for my projects too, and even I expect this to become my main project in the future.

## Features comparisons

| Features | Capgo | Appflow |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Live updates | ✅ | ✅ |
| Updates channel | ✅ | ✅ |
| Revert/change channel version | ✅ | ❌ |
| Install Stats | ✅ | ❌ |
| Sandbox app for test | ✅ | ❌ |
| Capacitor Plugin | ✅ | ❌ Cordova compatible |
| Cordova plugin | ❌ Could be back port | ✅ |
| Affordable pricing | ✅ Start at $14/mo | ❌ Start at $499/mo |
| Native build | ❌ | ✅ |
| 100% Open source | ✅ | ❌ |
| End-to-End encryption | ✅ | ❌ only for Portal |
| Portal | ❌ Could be done | ✅ |

If you are a big team with big budget I recommend you to use AppFlow they build the tool with dedicated CSM, not me.

Capgo is more self-service.

Otherwise 👇

## Register here to get your account

[Capgo](https://web.capgo.app/register)

Commit message:

fix: alternative to article and use old text to write backstory

content/blog/alternative-to-appflow.md, after:

---
slug: "alternative-to-appflow"
title: Alternative to Ionic Appflow
description: Ionic Appflow is the best complete set of tool for your app, sadly they
  price is not made for all, Capgo is here to let you handle OTA update at fair price.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://twitter.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-03-02
updated_at: 2022-12-14
head_image: "/appflow_alt.webp"
head_image_alt: Appflow alternative illustration
tag: Alternatives
published: true
next_blog: ""

---

Ionic Appflow is a cloud-based mobile app development platform that provides developers with a range of tools and services for building, testing, and deploying mobile apps quickly. It offers features such as continuous integration and deployment, crash reporting, allowing developers to track their app's performance and ensure that it is running smoothly for their users.

One of the standout features of Ionic Appflow is its support for live updates. This allows developers to update their app's content and functionality in real-time, without requiring users to download a new version of the app. This means that users can access the latest features and improvements as soon as they are available, without having to go through the process of downloading and installing an update.

If you already have your own continuous integration solution in place but your are interested in using Ionic Appflow's live update feature, you may find the cost of using Ionic Appflow to be prohibitive. In this case, you may want to consider using a different platform that offers live updates at a more affordable price.

One option is Capgo, an open-source, Capacitor plugin made by Digital shift company. Capgo provides live updates as Ionic Appflow, and can be integrated with a variety of continuous integration tools. This allows you to continue using your existing continuous integration setup while still taking advantage of the convenience and flexibility of live updates.

Of course, it is important for you to carefully evaluate the features and costs of any platform you are considering using, and to choose the solution that best meets your needs and budget. 

That why we made you a clear and simple table to help you compare.

## Features comparisons

| Features | Capgo | Appflow |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Live updates | ✅ | ✅ |
| Updates channel | ✅ | ✅ |
| Revert/change channel version | ✅ | ❌ |
| Install Stats | ✅ | ❌ |
| Sandbox app for test | ✅ | ❌ |
| Capacitor Plugin | ✅ | ❌ Cordova compatible |
| Cordova plugin | ❌ Could be back port | ✅ |
| Affordable pricing | ✅ Start at $14/mo | ❌ Start at $499/mo |
| Native build | ❌ | ✅ |
| 100% Open source | ✅ | ❌ |
| End-to-End encryption | ✅ | ❌ only for Portal |
| Portal | ❌ Could be done | ✅ |
| CI/CD | ❌ Tutorial to do it in popular  | ✅ |

## Continuous integration alternatives

If you are interested in using Capgo to take advantage of live updates but does not have a continuous integration solution in place, you can easily set up a low-cost continuous integration workflow using GitHub Actions. GitHub Actions is a free, built-in continuous integration and deployment service for GitHub repositories that allows developers to automate their software development workflows.

To set up continuous integration with GitHub Actions and Capgo, You will first need to create a GitHub repository for your app's code. Then you can create a workflow file in your repository that defines the steps that should be run whenever code is pushed to the repository. For example, a simple workflow file might include steps to build and test the app, and then use Capgo to create a live update and deploy it to the app's users.

With this setup in place, any time you introduce changes to your app's code and pushes it to the GitHub repository, the workflow file will be triggered, and the specified steps will be executed. This allows you to automatically build, test, and deploy your JS app with minimal effort, while still taking advantage of the convenience and flexibility of live updates.

Overall, using GitHub Actions and Capgo can be a cost-effective solution for who want to use live updates but do not have their own continuous integration setup in place. By leveraging these tools, clients can automate their app development process and quickly and easily deploy updates to their users.

If you are ready to set up your CI/CD with Capgo, you can follow this [tutorial for IOS](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-ios-build-github-action/), and [tutorial for Android](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-android-build-github-action/).

## Let's go further

If you are a big team who need dedicated support person, I recommend you to use AppFlow, not me. 

Capgo is self-service.

If you like open-source self-service community-driven tool,

Join use here 👇

## Register here to get your account

[Capgo](https://web.capgo.app/register)
