content/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users.md, before:

---
slug: "how-to-send-specific-version-to-users"
title: How to send specific update to one user or a group
description: Allow you user to try beta version without the need of TestFlight, or google beta process, just add a button in your app, and they are in !
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://twitter.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-06-17
updated_at: 2022-06-17
head_image: "/capgo_select_update.webp"
head_image_alt: TestFlight alternative illustration
tag: alternatives
published: true
next_blog: ""

---

## Preface

When you start to enjoy the update system of Capgo, like me for my apps, you will start to get the feeling “What if I want more?”

I got the feeling too, but since I'm the maker of Capgo, I was able to take a look!

> Since all is open-source, you have this power too :)

The next pain I got in the app distribution process is to make other teammates test the updates!

With TestFlight, the issue is simple, bring people in your team and make them understand how to get it is time-consuming!

And of course, each time you send to Apple you have a random review process by a bot who can take 5 min or 5 hours, you never know.

I got many times my presentation delayed by this…

And for Google this is even worse, the big mystery of my life, release a production version take less than 2 hours, but release a close beta take 1-2 days.


## Solution

To fix this, I crated the Channel system in Capgo.

`npx @capgo/cli@latest upload -c production` will update to all user (if production channel is set to public)

If you do `npx @capgo/cli@latest upload -c development` then the version land to a different channel, this can be automatized in [GitHub action](/blog/manage-dev-and-prod-build-with-github-actions). 

Then you have 2 way to let users get the updates from the channel

### Manual way

This can be useful for your internal team, this is fast to implement.
Allow user to copy their deviceID from your app and send it to you manually, this code will help you to get it:
```js
import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater'

const deviceId = await CapacitorUpdater.getDeviceId()
```
Hide a button somewhere in your app, or show the button to only connected user with a `admin` role, for example.

Then Go to the Web app or native app Capgo, connect as app admin, select your app, click on device list.

Then put in the search bar the deviceID click on the one found and then click on Channel link choose the `development`, ask your teammate to open the app again, wait 30 sec and open close again.

He should get your version.


### Automatic way

This can be useful for your beta testers, this is longer to implement.

Same as manual way, you have to get the deviceID
```js
import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater'

const deviceId = await CapacitorUpdater.getDeviceId()
```

But this time you have to send it automatically to your backend, I let you decide how you do that.

I will just suggest you to store it in database, that will facilitate your life later.

Then in your backend you have to send it to Capgo backend too. Below two code example:
<details>
  <summary>NodeJS</summary>

```js
import axios from 'axios'

await axios.post('https://api.capgo.app/device', {
  app_id: 'YOUR_APP_ID',
  device_id: 'DEVICE_ID',
  channel: 'CHANNEL_NAME', // The name of the channel, or undefined if version_id provided
  version_id: 'VERSION_NAME' // this is optionnal, if provide it will override the channel, that usefull when you want to debug only one user.
}, {
  headers: {
    authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY' // choose a key with 'write' or 'all' rights
  }
})
```
</details>


<details>
  <summary>Cloudflare</summary>
  
```js
addEventListener('fetch', (event) => {
  event.respondWith(
    handleRequest(event.request).catch(
      err => new Response(err.stack, { status: 500 })
    )
  )
})

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const { pathname, method } = new URL(request.url)
  const body = await request.json()
  const newBody = JSON.stringify({
    app_id: 'YOUR_APP_ID',
    device_id: body.device_id,
    channel: 'alpha'
  })
  const newUrl = new URL('https://api.capgo.app/device')
  const options = {
    headers: {
      authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY',
    },
    method: 'POST',
    body: newBody
  }

  if (request.method === 'DELETE') {
    // DELETE the channel link
    options.method = 'DELETE'
    return fetch(newUrl.toString(), options)
  }

  return fetch(newUrl.toString(), options)
}
```
And just send your device_id in body it to the deployed URL with POST to add and DELETE method to delete.
</details>

After this configured, try to add a button in your app to opt in to the channel, and check in the web app if that have been set.

You can also send `null` to remove override

If you need to check programmatically what override is set on a device, you can get on the same URL

```js
import axios from 'axios'

const res = await axios.get('https://api.capgo.app/device?app_id=YOUR_APP_ID&device_id=DEVICE_ID', {
  headers: {
    authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY' // choose a key with 'write' or 'all' rights
  }
})

console.log('data', res.json())
```

Commit message:

feat: add tuto self set

content/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users.md, after:

---
slug: "how-to-send-specific-version-to-users"
title: How to send specific update to one user or a group
description: Allow you user to try beta version without the need of TestFlight, or google beta process, just add a button in your app, and they are in !
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://twitter.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-06-17
updated_at: 2022-06-17
head_image: "/capgo_select_update.webp"
head_image_alt: TestFlight alternative illustration
tag: alternatives
published: true
next_blog: ""

---

## Preface

When you start to enjoy the update system of Capgo, like me for my apps, you will start to get the feeling “What if I want more?”

I got the feeling too, but since I'm the maker of Capgo, I was able to take a look!

> Since all is open-source, you have this power too :)

The next pain I got in the app distribution process is to make other teammates test the updates!

With TestFlight, the issue is simple, bring people in your team and make them understand how to get it is time-consuming!

And of course, each time you send to Apple you have a random review process by a bot who can take 5 min or 5 hours, you never know.

I got many times my presentation delayed by this…

And for Google this is even worse, the big mystery of my life, release a production version take less than 2 hours, but release a close beta take 1-2 days.


## Solution

To fix this, I crated the Channel system in Capgo.

`npx @capgo/cli@latest upload -c production` will update to all user (if production channel is set to public)

If you do `npx @capgo/cli@latest upload -c development` then the version land to a different channel, this can be automatized in [GitHub action](/blog/manage-dev-and-prod-build-with-github-actions). 

Then you have 2 way to let users get the updates from the channel

### Super automatic Way

This can be useful when you don't want to create your own backend for channel set, this is fast to implement.

With that one, the only thing you need to do is allow one of your channel to be self set.

![](/self_set.webp)

And then add this in the code of your app, for best experience use this after user click on button like "register for beta"
```js
import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater'

const deviceId = await CapacitorUpdater.setChannel({ channel: 'beta' })
```

### Manual way

This can be useful for your internal team, this is fast to implement.
Allow user to copy their deviceID from your app and send it to you manually, this code will help you to get it:
```js
import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater'

const deviceId = await CapacitorUpdater.getDeviceId()
```
Hide a button somewhere in your app, or show the button to only connected user with a `admin` role, for example.

Then Go to the Web app or native app Capgo, connect as app admin, select your app, click on device list.

Then put in the search bar the deviceID click on the one found and then click on Channel link choose the `development`, ask your teammate to open the app again, wait 30 sec and open close again.

He should get your version.


### Automatic way

This can be useful for your beta testers, this is longer to implement.

Same as manual way, you have to get the deviceID
```js
import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater'

const deviceId = await CapacitorUpdater.getDeviceId()
```

But this time you have to send it automatically to your backend, I let you decide how you do that.

I will just suggest you to store it in database, that will facilitate your life later.

Then in your backend you have to send it to Capgo backend too. Below two code example:
<details>
  <summary>NodeJS</summary>

```js
import axios from 'axios'

await axios.post('https://api.capgo.app/device', {
  app_id: 'YOUR_APP_ID',
  device_id: 'DEVICE_ID',
  channel: 'CHANNEL_NAME', // The name of the channel, or undefined if version_id provided
  version_id: 'VERSION_NAME' // this is optionnal, if provide it will override the channel, that usefull when you want to debug only one user.
}, {
  headers: {
    authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY' // choose a key with 'write' or 'all' rights
  }
})
```
</details>


<details>
  <summary>Cloudflare</summary>
  
```js
addEventListener('fetch', (event) => {
  event.respondWith(
    handleRequest(event.request).catch(
      err => new Response(err.stack, { status: 500 })
    )
  )
})

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const { pathname, method } = new URL(request.url)
  const body = await request.json()
  const newBody = JSON.stringify({
    app_id: 'YOUR_APP_ID',
    device_id: body.device_id,
    channel: 'alpha'
  })
  const newUrl = new URL('https://api.capgo.app/device')
  const options = {
    headers: {
      authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY',
    },
    method: 'POST',
    body: newBody
  }

  if (request.method === 'DELETE') {
    // DELETE the channel link
    options.method = 'DELETE'
    return fetch(newUrl.toString(), options)
  }

  return fetch(newUrl.toString(), options)
}
```
And just send your device_id in body it to the deployed URL with POST to add and DELETE method to delete.
</details>

After this configured, try to add a button in your app to opt in to the channel, and check in the web app if that have been set.

You can also send `null` to remove override

If you need to check programmatically what override is set on a device, you can get on the same URL

```js
import axios from 'axios'

const res = await axios.get('https://api.capgo.app/device?app_id=YOUR_APP_ID&device_id=DEVICE_ID', {
  headers: {
    authorization: 'YOUR_API_KEY' // choose a key with 'write' or 'all' rights
  }
})

console.log('data', res.json())
```
