src/content/docs/es/docs/plugins/native-purchases/ios-app-store-review.mdx, before:

---
title: Directrices de revisión de App Store de iOS para IAP
locale: es
description: Guía completa para aprobar la revisión de App Store con compras y suscripciones en la aplicación, incluyendo razones comunes de rechazo y mejores prácticas.
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Lograr la aprobación de tu aplicación en App Store requiere una atención cuidadosa a las directrices de Apple, especialmente al implementar compras y suscripciones en la aplicación. Esta guía cubre todo lo que necesitas saber para aprobar la revisión en tu primer envío.

![iOS App Store Review Process](/native-purchases/review-guides/ios-review-hero.webp)

## Requisitos de compras en la aplicación

### Transparencia de precios (Crítico)

Apple requiere una divulgación de precios cristalina antes de cualquier compra:

**Elementos imprescindibles:**
- Mostrar el precio exacto antes del botón de compra
- Mostrar la frecuencia de facturación (por ejemplo, "$9.99/mes")
- Indicar claramente qué obtienen los usuarios por su dinero
- Indicar cuándo se realizarán los cargos

**Rechazo común:**
> "El precio de la suscripción debe ser claro y transparente."

:::caution Price Consistency
All prices must match across:
- App Store metadata listing
- In-app purchase screens
- Subscription management screens

Even a $1 discrepancy between store listing ($4.99) and app ($5.99) will trigger automatic rejection.
:::

### Subscription Plan Presentation

**Required Disclosures:**
- All available subscription tiers displayed together
- Clear comparison of features per tier
- No auto-defaulting to premium tiers through UI tricks
- Easy-to-locate cancellation instructions

![UI Design Dos and Don'ts](/native-purchases/review-guides/ui-design-dos-donts.webp)

**Example of Compliant UI:**
```typescript
import { NativePurchases } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

function SubscriptionScreen() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Choose Your Plan</h2>

      {/* Show all tiers equally */}
      <PlanCard
        title="Basic"
        price="$4.99/month"
        features={['Feature A', 'Feature B']}
      />
      <PlanCard
        title="Premium"
        price="$9.99/month"
        features={['All Basic', 'Feature C', 'Feature D']}
        highlighted={false} // Don't force premium
      />

      {/* Clear cancellation info */}
      <Text>
        Cancel anytime in Settings > Subscriptions.
        No refunds for partial periods.
      </Text>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Restore Purchases

**Required Implementation:**

Every app with IAP must provide a way for users to restore previous purchases without contacting support.

```typescript
import { NativePurchases, PURCHASE_TYPE } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

async function restorePurchases() {
  try {
    await NativePurchases.restorePurchases();

    const { purchases } = await NativePurchases.getPurchases({
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.SUBS,
    });

    const activeSub = purchases.find(
      (purchase) => purchase.isActive && purchase.expirationDate,
    );

    if (activeSub) {
      unlockPremiumFeatures();
      showMessage('Purchases restored successfully!');
      return;
    }

    const { purchases: iaps } = await NativePurchases.getPurchases({
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.INAPP,
    });
    const hasIap = iaps.some((purchase) => purchase.productIdentifier === 'premium_unlock');

    showMessage(
      hasIap ? 'Premium purchase restored!' : 'No previous purchases found.',
    );
  } catch (error) {
    showError('Failed to restore purchases. Please try again.');
  }
}

// Add a visible "Restore Purchases" button
<Button onClick={restorePurchases}>
  Restore Purchases
</Button>
```

## Common Rejection Reasons

### 1. App Crashes or Broken Functionality

**Why It Fails:**
- App crashes on launch
- Purchase flow fails to complete
- Features shown in screenshots don't work

**Prevention:**
- Test on real devices (not just simulators)
- Test all subscription flows end-to-end
- Verify receipt validation works
- Check network error handling

### 2. Metadata Mismatches

**Why It Fails:**
- Screenshots show features not in current build
- Description mentions functionality that doesn't exist
- Pricing in metadata differs from in-app pricing

![Metadata Checklist](/native-purchases/review-guides/metadata-checklist.webp)

**Prevention:**
```typescript
// Document exactly what's in each tier
const SUBSCRIPTION_FEATURES = {
  basic: ['Ad-free', 'Cloud sync', 'Basic themes'],
  premium: ['Ad-free', 'Cloud sync', 'All themes', 'Priority support']
};

// Use these in both your app AND App Store description
```

### 3. Missing Permission Explanations

**Why It Fails:**
- Requesting camera/location/health without explanation
- Permission requests buried multiple screens deep
- Vague or generic permission descriptions

**Prevention:**

Update your `Info.plist` with clear explanations:

```xml
<key>NSCameraUsageDescription</key>
<string>Camera access is needed to scan product barcodes for quick subscription upgrades.</string>

<key>NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>Location helps us show relevant local content in your Premium subscription.</string>
```

### 4. Misleading Marketing

**Why It Fails:**
- Claims like "#1 app in world" without proof
- "Unlimited" features that have hidden limits
- Fake urgency tactics ("Only 2 spots left!")

![Description Guidelines Examples](/native-purchases/review-guides/description-guidelines-1.webp)

![Additional Description Guidelines](/native-purchases/review-guides/description-guidelines-2.webp)

**Prevention:**
- Be specific and factual in descriptions
- Avoid superlatives without evidence
- Don't pressure users with fake scarcity

### 5. Hidden Cancellation Process

**Why It Fails:**
- No mention of how to cancel
- Cancellation button hidden or obscured
- Multi-step cancellation process without Apple's native flow

**Prevention:**
```typescript
// Always inform users about cancellation
function SubscriptionInfo() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>How to Cancel</h3>
      <ol>
        <li>Open iPhone Settings</li>
        <li>Tap your name at the top</li>
        <li>Tap Subscriptions</li>
        <li>Select this app and tap Cancel</li>
      </ol>

      <p>Or manage directly in the App Store app.</p>

      <Button onClick={openSubscriptionManagement}>
        Manage Subscription in Settings
      </Button>
    </div>
  );
}

async function openSubscriptionManagement() {
  // Direct link to iOS subscription management
  await NativePurchases.showManageSubscriptions();
}
```

## Privacy & Data Usage (Section 5.1.1)

Apple has significantly tightened privacy requirements in 2025.

### Required Disclosures

**For Every Permission:**
1. Why you need it (specific use case)
2. When it will be used
3. How data is stored/shared
4. Whether it's optional or required

### Example: Proper Permission Flow

```typescript
async function requestCameraPermission() {
  // Show explanation BEFORE requesting
  await showDialog({
    title: 'Camera Access',
    message: 'We need camera access to let you scan barcodes for quick product lookup. Your photos are never uploaded or stored.',
    buttons: ['Not Now', 'Allow']
  });

  // Then request permission
  const result = await Camera.requestPermissions();
  return result.camera === 'granted';
}
```

### Privacy Nutrition Labels

Ensure your App Store privacy labels accurately reflect:
- Purchase history collection
- Email addresses (for receipts)
- Device IDs (for fraud prevention)
- Usage data (for analytics)

:::warning
Inaccurate privacy labels are a common rejection reason in 2025. Audit your data collection carefully.
:::

## Pre-Submission Checklist

![Pre-Submission Checklist](/native-purchases/review-guides/pre-submission-checklist.webp)

<Steps>

1. **Test All Purchase Flows**
   - Buy each subscription tier
   - Test free trials
   - Verify introductory offers apply correctly
   - Test restore purchases
   - Verify Family Sharing (if enabled)
   - Test on multiple devices

2. **Verify Pricing Consistency**
   - Check App Store metadata matches in-app prices
   - Verify all currencies are correct
   - Confirm free trial durations match descriptions
   - Check introductory offer terms are accurate

3. **Review All Copy**
   - Remove placeholder text
   - Verify claims are testable
   - Check grammar and spelling
   - Ensure descriptions match current build
   - Remove competitor mentions

4. **Test Permissions**
   - Request only necessary permissions
   - Show clear explanations before requesting
   - Test "Deny" flows (app should still work)
   - Verify Info.plist descriptions are clear

5. **Prepare Test Account**
   - Create sandbox test account
   - Document login credentials in App Review Notes
   - Verify test account has active subscription
   - Test that reviewer can complete purchase flow

6. **Check Metadata**
   - Screenshots match current UI
   - App preview video (if any) shows current version
   - Description accurately describes features
   - Age rating matches content
   - Privacy policy is accessible in-app

7. **Write Detailed Review Notes**
   ```
   Test Account:
   Email: reviewer@test.com
   Password: TestPass123!

   Testing Instructions:
   1. Log in with test account above
   2. Tap "Upgrade to Premium" button
   3. Select "Monthly Premium" subscription
   4. Complete purchase (no charge in sandbox)
   5. Verify premium features unlock

   Note: Subscription pricing is clearly shown before purchase.
   Cancellation instructions are in Settings > Account.
   ```

</Steps>

## Review Timeline

![App Store Review Timeline](/native-purchases/review-guides/review-timeline.webp)

**Standard Review:** 24-48 hours
**Peak Periods:** 3-5 days (App Store holiday releases)
**Weekends:** No reviews processed
**Expedited Review:** Available for critical bug fixes (request via App Store Connect)

:::tip
Submit early in the week to avoid weekend delays. Monday submissions typically get reviewed by Wednesday.
:::

## 2025 Guideline Updates

### New Requirements

**1. AI Functionality Disclosure**
If your app uses AI for any features, you must:
- Clearly label AI-generated content
- Explain how AI is used
- Document content safety measures

**2. Enhanced Subscription Clarity**
- Side-by-side plan comparisons required
- No "dark patterns" that hide cheaper options
- Clear downgrade/upgrade paths

**3. Privacy Intensification**
- Section 5.1.1 enforcement increased
- More scrutiny on data collection justification
- Stricter requirements for children's apps

### What Changed from 2024

- Modular submissions now allowed (update product pages independently)
- In-app events can be submitted separately
- Stricter enforcement of misleading subscription UIs
- New guidance on cryptocurrency/NFT apps

## Best Practices for Native Purchases Plugin

### Implement Proper Error Handling

```typescript
import { NativePurchases, PURCHASE_TYPE } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

async function handlePurchase(productId: string) {
  try {
    const transaction = await NativePurchases.purchaseProduct({
      productIdentifier: productId,
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.SUBS,
    });

    // Success
    await validateReceiptOnServer(transaction.receipt);
    showSuccess('Subscription activated!');
    unlockFeatures();

  } catch (error: any) {
    // Handle specific error cases
    if (error.code === 'USER_CANCELLED') {
      // User cancelled - don't show error
      console.log('Purchase cancelled by user');
    } else if (error.code === 'PAYMENT_PENDING') {
      showInfo('Payment is pending. Please check back later.');
    } else if (error.code === 'PRODUCT_ALREADY_PURCHASED') {
      // Restore instead
      await NativePurchases.restorePurchases();
    } else {
      // Show user-friendly error
      showError('Unable to complete purchase. Please try again.');
    }
  }
}
```

### Display Loading States

```typescript
function PurchaseButton({ productId }: { productId: string }) {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

  const handlePurchase = async () => {
    setLoading(true);
    try {
      await NativePurchases.purchaseProduct({ productIdentifier: productId });
    } finally {
      setLoading(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={handlePurchase} disabled={loading}>
      {loading ? 'Processing...' : 'Subscribe Now'}
    </button>
  );
}
```

### Show Terms Clearly

```typescript
function SubscriptionTerms() {
  return (
    <div className="terms">
      <p>
        Subscription automatically renews unless cancelled at least 24 hours
        before the end of the current period.
      </p>
      <p>
        Your account will be charged for renewal within 24 hours prior to
        the end of the current period.
      </p>
      <p>
        Subscriptions may be managed by the user and auto-renewal may be
        turned off in Account Settings after purchase.
      </p>
      <p>
        <a href="/terms">Terms of Service</a> |
        <a href="/privacy">Privacy Policy</a>
      </p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## If Your App Gets Rejected

### Steps to Resolve

<Steps>

1. **Read the rejection carefully**
   - Note the specific guideline cited (e.g., 3.1.1, 5.1.1)
   - Understand exactly what Apple flagged

2. **Fix the issue thoroughly**
   - Don't just patch - fix root cause
   - Test the fix extensively
   - Document what you changed

3. **Respond in Resolution Center**
   ```
   Thank you for your feedback. I have addressed the issue:

   Issue: Subscription pricing not clear upfront

   Fix: Added explicit pricing display on subscription selection
   screen showing "$9.99/month" before purchase button. Also added
   cancellation instructions on the same screen.

   The changes are in this submission and can be tested using the
   provided test account.
   ```

4. **Resubmit promptly**
   - Resubmissions are typically reviewed faster
   - Usually within 24 hours

</Steps>

### Appeal Process

If you believe the rejection is incorrect:

![App Store Clarification Process](/native-purchases/review-guides/clarification-process.webp)

1. Click "Appeal" in App Store Connect
2. Provide clear evidence:
   - Screenshots showing compliance
   - References to specific guidelines
   - Explanation of how you meet requirements
3. Be professional and factual
4. Include test account if functionality is hard to find

![Request for Documents Example](/native-purchases/review-guides/request-documents.webp)

## Additional Resources

- [Apple App Store Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/)
- [In-App Purchase Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/#in-app-purchase)
- [Subscriptions Best Practices](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/subscriptions/)
- [App Store Connect Help](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/)

## Support

If you're still having issues:
- Review the [Native Purchases documentation](/docs/plugins/native-purchases/getting-started/)
- Check [common troubleshooting issues](/docs/plugins/native-purchases/getting-started/#troubleshooting)
- Contact Apple Developer Support for guideline clarifications

### Need Expert Help?

Struggling with app review or need personalized assistance? **[Book a consultation call with our team](https://cal.com/team/capgo/capacitor-consulting-services)** for dedicated support with:

- IAP implementation review and optimization
- App Store review preparation and strategy
- Submission checklist review
- Rejection resolution and appeals
- Complete testing and validation

Our experts have successfully helped hundreds of apps pass review!

Commit message:

fix(docs): update Korean and Chinese documentation for social login and uploader plugins, including minor text corrections and formatting adjustments

src/content/docs/es/docs/plugins/native-purchases/ios-app-store-review.mdx, after:

---title: iOS App Store Review Guidelines for IAP
description: Complete guide to passing App Store review with in-app purchases and subscriptions, including common rejection reasons and best practices.
sidebar:
order: 10
locale: es---

import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Getting your app approved on the App Store requires careful attention to Apple's guidelines, especially when implementing in-app purchases and subscriptions. This guide covers everything you need to know to pass review on your first submission.

![iOS App Store Review Process](/native-purchases/review-guides/ios-review-hero.webp)

## In-App Purchase Requirements

### Pricing Transparency (Critical)

Apple requires crystal-clear pricing disclosure before any purchase:

**Must-Have Elements:**
- Display exact price before purchase button
- Show billing frequency (e.g., "$9.99/month")
- Clearly state what users get for their money
- Indicate when charges will occur

**Common Rejection:**
> "Subscription pricing must be clear and upfront."

:::caution Price Consistency
All prices must match across:
- App Store metadata listing
- In-app purchase screens
- Subscription management screens

Even a $1 discrepancy between store listing ($4.99) and app ($5.99) will trigger automatic rejection.
:::

### Subscription Plan Presentation

**Required Disclosures:**
- All available subscription tiers displayed together
- Clear comparison of features per tier
- No auto-defaulting to premium tiers through UI tricks
- Easy-to-locate cancellation instructions

![UI Design Dos and Don'ts](/native-purchases/review-guides/ui-design-dos-donts.webp)

**Example of Compliant UI:**
```typescript
import { NativePurchases } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

function SubscriptionScreen() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Choose Your Plan</h2>

      {/* Show all tiers equally */}
      <PlanCard
        title="Basic"
        price="$4.99/month"
        features={['Feature A', 'Feature B']}
      />
      <PlanCard
        title="Premium"
        price="$9.99/month"
        features={['All Basic', 'Feature C', 'Feature D']}
        highlighted={false} // Don't force premium
      />

      {/* Clear cancellation info */}
      <Text>
        Cancel anytime in Settings > Subscriptions.
        No refunds for partial periods.
      </Text>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Restore Purchases

**Required Implementation:**

Every app with IAP must provide a way for users to restore previous purchases without contacting support.

```typescript
import { NativePurchases, PURCHASE_TYPE } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

async function restorePurchases() {
  try {
    await NativePurchases.restorePurchases();

    const { purchases } = await NativePurchases.getPurchases({
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.SUBS,
    });

    const activeSub = purchases.find(
      (purchase) => purchase.isActive && purchase.expirationDate,
    );

    if (activeSub) {
      unlockPremiumFeatures();
      showMessage('Purchases restored successfully!');
      return;
    }

    const { purchases: iaps } = await NativePurchases.getPurchases({
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.INAPP,
    });
    const hasIap = iaps.some((purchase) => purchase.productIdentifier === 'premium_unlock');

    showMessage(
      hasIap ? 'Premium purchase restored!' : 'No previous purchases found.',
    );
  } catch (error) {
    showError('Failed to restore purchases. Please try again.');
  }
}

// Add a visible "Restore Purchases" button
<Button onClick={restorePurchases}>
  Restore Purchases
</Button>
```

## Common Rejection Reasons

### 1. App Crashes or Broken Functionality

**Why It Fails:**
- App crashes on launch
- Purchase flow fails to complete
- Features shown in screenshots don't work

**Prevention:**
- Test on real devices (not just simulators)
- Test all subscription flows end-to-end
- Verify receipt validation works
- Check network error handling

### 2. Metadata Mismatches

**Why It Fails:**
- Screenshots show features not in current build
- Description mentions functionality that doesn't exist
- Pricing in metadata differs from in-app pricing

![Metadata Checklist](/native-purchases/review-guides/metadata-checklist.webp)

**Prevention:**
```typescript
// Document exactly what's in each tier
const SUBSCRIPTION_FEATURES = {
  basic: ['Ad-free', 'Cloud sync', 'Basic themes'],
  premium: ['Ad-free', 'Cloud sync', 'All themes', 'Priority support']
};

// Use these in both your app AND App Store description
```

### 3. Missing Permission Explanations

**Why It Fails:**
- Requesting camera/location/health without explanation
- Permission requests buried multiple screens deep
- Vague or generic permission descriptions

**Prevention:**

Update your `Info.plist` with clear explanations:

```xml
<key>NSCameraUsageDescription</key>
<string>Camera access is needed to scan product barcodes for quick subscription upgrades.</string>

<key>NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>Location helps us show relevant local content in your Premium subscription.</string>
```

### 4. Misleading Marketing

**Why It Fails:**
- Claims like "#1 app in world" without proof
- "Unlimited" features that have hidden limits
- Fake urgency tactics ("Only 2 spots left!")

![Description Guidelines Examples](/native-purchases/review-guides/description-guidelines-1.webp)

![Additional Description Guidelines](/native-purchases/review-guides/description-guidelines-2.webp)

**Prevention:**
- Be specific and factual in descriptions
- Avoid superlatives without evidence
- Don't pressure users with fake scarcity

### 5. Hidden Cancellation Process

**Why It Fails:**
- No mention of how to cancel
- Cancellation button hidden or obscured
- Multi-step cancellation process without Apple's native flow

**Prevention:**
```typescript
// Always inform users about cancellation
function SubscriptionInfo() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>How to Cancel</h3>
      <ol>
        <li>Open iPhone Settings</li>
        <li>Tap your name at the top</li>
        <li>Tap Subscriptions</li>
        <li>Select this app and tap Cancel</li>
      </ol>

      <p>Or manage directly in the App Store app.</p>

      <Button onClick={openSubscriptionManagement}>
        Manage Subscription in Settings
      </Button>
    </div>
  );
}

async function openSubscriptionManagement() {
  // Direct link to iOS subscription management
  await NativePurchases.showManageSubscriptions();
}
```

## Privacy & Data Usage (Section 5.1.1)

Apple has significantly tightened privacy requirements in 2025.

### Required Disclosures

**For Every Permission:**
1. Why you need it (specific use case)
2. When it will be used
3. How data is stored/shared
4. Whether it's optional or required

### Example: Proper Permission Flow

```typescript
async function requestCameraPermission() {
  // Show explanation BEFORE requesting
  await showDialog({
    title: 'Camera Access',
    message: 'We need camera access to let you scan barcodes for quick product lookup. Your photos are never uploaded or stored.',
    buttons: ['Not Now', 'Allow']
  });

  // Then request permission
  const result = await Camera.requestPermissions();
  return result.camera === 'granted';
}
```

### Privacy Nutrition Labels

Ensure your App Store privacy labels accurately reflect:
- Purchase history collection
- Email addresses (for receipts)
- Device IDs (for fraud prevention)
- Usage data (for analytics)

:::warning
Inaccurate privacy labels are a common rejection reason in 2025. Audit your data collection carefully.
:::

## Pre-Submission Checklist

![Pre-Submission Checklist](/native-purchases/review-guides/pre-submission-checklist.webp)

<Steps>

1. **Test All Purchase Flows**
   - Buy each subscription tier
   - Test free trials
   - Verify introductory offers apply correctly
   - Test restore purchases
   - Verify Family Sharing (if enabled)
   - Test on multiple devices

2. **Verify Pricing Consistency**
   - Check App Store metadata matches in-app prices
   - Verify all currencies are correct
   - Confirm free trial durations match descriptions
   - Check introductory offer terms are accurate

3. **Review All Copy**
   - Remove placeholder text
   - Verify claims are testable
   - Check grammar and spelling
   - Ensure descriptions match current build
   - Remove competitor mentions

4. **Test Permissions**
   - Request only necessary permissions
   - Show clear explanations before requesting
   - Test "Deny" flows (app should still work)
   - Verify Info.plist descriptions are clear

5. **Prepare Test Account**
   - Create sandbox test account
   - Document login credentials in App Review Notes
   - Verify test account has active subscription
   - Test that reviewer can complete purchase flow

6. **Check Metadata**
   - Screenshots match current UI
   - App preview video (if any) shows current version
   - Description accurately describes features
   - Age rating matches content
   - Privacy policy is accessible in-app

7. **Write Detailed Review Notes**
   ```
   Test Account:
   Email: reviewer@test.com
   Password: TestPass123!

   Testing Instructions:
   1. Log in with test account above
   2. Tap "Upgrade to Premium" button
   3. Select "Monthly Premium" subscription
   4. Complete purchase (no charge in sandbox)
   5. Verify premium features unlock

   Note: Subscription pricing is clearly shown before purchase.
   Cancellation instructions are in Settings > Account.
   ```

</Steps>

## Review Timeline

![App Store Review Timeline](/native-purchases/review-guides/review-timeline.webp)

**Standard Review:** 24-48 hours
**Peak Periods:** 3-5 days (App Store holiday releases)
**Weekends:** No reviews processed
**Expedited Review:** Available for critical bug fixes (request via App Store Connect)

:::tip
Submit early in the week to avoid weekend delays. Monday submissions typically get reviewed by Wednesday.
:::

## 2025 Guideline Updates

### New Requirements

**1. AI Functionality Disclosure**
If your app uses AI for any features, you must:
- Clearly label AI-generated content
- Explain how AI is used
- Document content safety measures

**2. Enhanced Subscription Clarity**
- Side-by-side plan comparisons required
- No "dark patterns" that hide cheaper options
- Clear downgrade/upgrade paths

**3. Privacy Intensification**
- Section 5.1.1 enforcement increased
- More scrutiny on data collection justification
- Stricter requirements for children's apps

### What Changed from 2024

- Modular submissions now allowed (update product pages independently)
- In-app events can be submitted separately
- Stricter enforcement of misleading subscription UIs
- New guidance on cryptocurrency/NFT apps

## Best Practices for Native Purchases Plugin

### Implement Proper Error Handling

```typescript
import { NativePurchases, PURCHASE_TYPE } from '@capgo/native-purchases';

async function handlePurchase(productId: string) {
  try {
    const transaction = await NativePurchases.purchaseProduct({
      productIdentifier: productId,
      productType: PURCHASE_TYPE.SUBS,
    });

    // Success
    await validateReceiptOnServer(transaction.receipt);
    showSuccess('Subscription activated!');
    unlockFeatures();

  } catch (error: any) {
    // Handle specific error cases
    if (error.code === 'USER_CANCELLED') {
      // User cancelled - don't show error
      console.log('Purchase cancelled by user');
    } else if (error.code === 'PAYMENT_PENDING') {
      showInfo('Payment is pending. Please check back later.');
    } else if (error.code === 'PRODUCT_ALREADY_PURCHASED') {
      // Restore instead
      await NativePurchases.restorePurchases();
    } else {
      // Show user-friendly error
      showError('Unable to complete purchase. Please try again.');
    }
  }
}
```

### Display Loading States

```typescript
function PurchaseButton({ productId }: { productId: string }) {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

  const handlePurchase = async () => {
    setLoading(true);
    try {
      await NativePurchases.purchaseProduct({ productIdentifier: productId });
    } finally {
      setLoading(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={handlePurchase} disabled={loading}>
      {loading ? 'Processing...' : 'Subscribe Now'}
    </button>
  );
}
```

### Show Terms Clearly

```typescript
function SubscriptionTerms() {
  return (
    <div className="terms">
      <p>
        Subscription automatically renews unless cancelled at least 24 hours
        before the end of the current period.
      </p>
      <p>
        Your account will be charged for renewal within 24 hours prior to
        the end of the current period.
      </p>
      <p>
        Subscriptions may be managed by the user and auto-renewal may be
        turned off in Account Settings after purchase.
      </p>
      <p>
        <a href="/terms">Terms of Service</a> |
        <a href="/privacy">Privacy Policy</a>
      </p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## If Your App Gets Rejected

### Steps to Resolve

<Steps>

1. **Read the rejection carefully**
   - Note the specific guideline cited (e.g., 3.1.1, 5.1.1)
   - Understand exactly what Apple flagged

2. **Fix the issue thoroughly**
   - Don't just patch - fix root cause
   - Test the fix extensively
   - Document what you changed

3. **Respond in Resolution Center**
   ```
   Thank you for your feedback. I have addressed the issue:

   Issue: Subscription pricing not clear upfront

   Fix: Added explicit pricing display on subscription selection
   screen showing "$9.99/month" before purchase button. Also added
   cancellation instructions on the same screen.

   The changes are in this submission and can be tested using the
   provided test account.
   ```

4. **Resubmit promptly**
   - Resubmissions are typically reviewed faster
   - Usually within 24 hours

</Steps>

### Appeal Process

If you believe the rejection is incorrect:

![App Store Clarification Process](/native-purchases/review-guides/clarification-process.webp)

1. Click "Appeal" in App Store Connect
2. Provide clear evidence:
   - Screenshots showing compliance
   - References to specific guidelines
   - Explanation of how you meet requirements
3. Be professional and factual
4. Include test account if functionality is hard to find

![Request for Documents Example](/native-purchases/review-guides/request-documents.webp)

## Additional Resources

- [Apple App Store Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/)
- [In-App Purchase Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/#in-app-purchase)
- [Subscriptions Best Practices](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/subscriptions/)
- [App Store Connect Help](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/)

## Support

If you're still having issues:
- Review the [Native Purchases documentation](/docs/plugins/native-purchases/getting-started/)
- Check [common troubleshooting issues](/docs/plugins/native-purchases/getting-started/#troubleshooting)
- Contact Apple Developer Support for guideline clarifications

### Need Expert Help?

Struggling with app review or need personalized assistance? **[Book a consultation call with our team](https://cal.com/team/capgo/capacitor-consulting-services)** for dedicated support with:

- IAP implementation review and optimization
- App Store review preparation and strategy
- Submission checklist review
- Rejection resolution and appeals
- Complete testing and validation

Our experts have successfully helped hundreds of apps pass review!
