src/content/docs/docs/plugins/updater/self-hosted/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: "Getting started"
description: "A comprehensive guide on setting up and managing your own auto-update server for seamless application updates and maintenance"
sidebar:
    order: 1
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This documentation will explain how to run your own auto-update server.

## Introduction

If you find this work helpful, please consider supporting my work by becoming a [Github sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/riderx).

I made a bet to open-source all the code I built here instead of paywalling it. By opening it up instead of fighting and hiding, I believe we can make the world a better place.

Furthermore, I want to focus on Capgo tooling, and make it an open and transparent business.

But to make it possible, it is necessary for all of us to do our part, including you 🥹.

If Capgo doesn't suit you, then pay your own price and [back a bootstrapped Maker](https://github.com/sponsors/riderx) on your terms.

<LinkCard title="Consider Contributing" href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/contributing/"/>
## Features parity

If you choose to go with your own server, you will lose the 5-min setup flow.\
You need to implement all of these features yourself.


| Features                 | Capgo | Self hosted |
| ------------------------ | ----- | ----------- |
| Updates                  | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Auto revert              | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Email alerts on fail     | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels                 | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels Override        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Device Override          | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels Settings        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Device Settings          | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Custom ID                | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Auto Set Channels        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| API Channels             | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Updates Statistics       | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Fail Download Statistics | ✅     | 🚧         |
| App Usage Statistics     | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Update Encryption        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Differential updates     | ✅     | ❌         |

:::danger
If you send a bad update to your users you can and will break their app.
:::

> Be mindful that you can't use the Capgo cloud and your server at the same time.



:::danger
The Over-the-Air (OTA) update feature is applicable only for modifications made to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files.

If you make any changes to the native code, such as updates to Capacitor plugins, it is mandatory to resubmit the application to the app store for approval.
:::

## Choose between Auto and Manual
In auto mode, part of the logic is handled by the Native code, updates are decided server side, this is more secure and allows fine grain updates, partial deployment to one device or group and more.

In manual mode, all the logic is handled by the JS.



<LinkCard
	title="Auto Update"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/auto-update/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manual"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/manual-update/"
/>

## Install Capacitor updater

```bash title="Install the Capacitor updater"
npm install @capgo/capacitor-updater
npx cap sync
```

## Prepare your bundle

To send updates to your app, you need to zip it.
The best way to be certain your zip is good is to use the Capgo CLI for zipping.
```bash title="Create a bundle with your files to serve from your server"
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip
```


You will have to serve this zip from your server on your own.

<LinkCard
	title="Auto Update"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/auto-update/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manual"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/manual-update/"
/>


:::note
If this seems like a lot of work, try the trial Capgo Cloud.
:::

:::note
Differential update will not work in manual updates, but it can work in auto update, right now it's not documented as it's pretty complex process
:::

Commit message:

docs: standardize delta manifest wording

src/content/docs/docs/plugins/updater/self-hosted/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: "Getting started"
description: "A comprehensive guide on setting up and managing your own auto-update server for seamless application updates and maintenance"
sidebar:
    order: 1
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This documentation will explain how to run your own auto-update server.

## Introduction

If you find this work helpful, please consider supporting my work by becoming a [Github sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/riderx).

I made a bet to open-source all the code I built here instead of paywalling it. By opening it up instead of fighting and hiding, I believe we can make the world a better place.

Furthermore, I want to focus on Capgo tooling, and make it an open and transparent business.

But to make it possible, it is necessary for all of us to do our part, including you 🥹.

If Capgo doesn't suit you, then pay your own price and [back a bootstrapped Maker](https://github.com/sponsors/riderx) on your terms.

<LinkCard title="Consider Contributing" href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/contributing/"/>
## Features parity

If you choose to go with your own server, you will lose the 5-min setup flow.\
You need to implement all of these features yourself.


| Features                 | Capgo | Self hosted |
| ------------------------ | ----- | ----------- |
| Updates                  | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Auto revert              | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Email alerts on fail     | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels                 | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels Override        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Device Override          | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Channels Settings        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Device Settings          | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Custom ID                | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Auto Set Channels        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| API Channels             | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Updates Statistics       | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Fail Download Statistics | ✅     | 🚧         |
| App Usage Statistics     | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Update Encryption        | ✅     | 🚧         |
| Delta (manifest) updates | ✅     | ❌         |

:::danger
If you send a bad update to your users you can and will break their app.
:::

> Be mindful that you can't use the Capgo cloud and your server at the same time.



:::danger
The Over-the-Air (OTA) update feature is applicable only for modifications made to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files.

If you make any changes to the native code, such as updates to Capacitor plugins, it is mandatory to resubmit the application to the app store for approval.
:::

## Choose between Auto and Manual
In auto mode, part of the logic is handled by the Native code, updates are decided server side, this is more secure and allows fine grain updates, partial deployment to one device or group and more.

In manual mode, all the logic is handled by the JS.



<LinkCard
	title="Auto Update"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/auto-update/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manual"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/manual-update/"
/>

## Install Capacitor updater

```bash title="Install the Capacitor updater"
npm install @capgo/capacitor-updater
npx cap sync
```

## Prepare your bundle

To send updates to your app, you need to zip it.
The best way to be certain your zip is good is to use the Capgo CLI for zipping.
```bash title="Create a bundle with your files to serve from your server"
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip
```


You will have to serve this zip from your server on your own.

<LinkCard
	title="Auto Update"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/auto-update/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manual"
	href="/docs/plugin/self-hosted/manual-update/"
/>


:::note
If this seems like a lot of work, try the trial Capgo Cloud.
:::

:::note
Delta (manifest) updates will not work in manual updates, but they can work in auto update. Right now it's not documented because it's a pretty complex process.
:::
