src/content/pages/migration-service.mdx, before:

---
title: Migration Service
description: Professional service to help you transition to Capgo's modern platform
---

# Migration Service

As the largest Capacitor plugin provider and live update platform, we offer a professional migration service to help teams transition to Capgo. With over 30 million live updates served daily and expertise in managing over 20 plugins, we ensure a smooth migration process.

## Service Overview

### What We Offer
- Complete migration strategy development
- Seamless transition process
- Custom CI/CD pipeline setup
- Live update system migration
- Comprehensive testing
- Post-migration support

### Our Process
1. **Initial Assessment**
   - Current setup evaluation
   - Requirements gathering
   - Timeline planning
   - Risk assessment

2. **Migration Planning**
   - Custom migration strategy
   - Contingency planning
   - Testing methodology
   - Timeline development

3. **Implementation**
   - Live update system migration
   - CI/CD pipeline setup
   - Configuration transfer
   - Testing and validation

4. **Post-Migration**
   - System verification
   - Performance monitoring
   - Team training
   - Documentation handover

## Why Choose Our Migration Service?

### Our Expertise
- **Scale**: Serving billions of updates across cloud and self-hosted environments
- **Experience**: Largest Capacitor plugin provider with 20+ maintained plugins
- **Track Record**: Successfully migrated numerous teams to our platform
- **Technical Depth**: Deep understanding of mobile app deployment architectures

### Client Success Stories

> "The migration team at Capgo made our transition completely seamless. Their expertise saved us weeks of work."
> - *David Williams, Engineering Director at MobileFirst*

> "Not only did they handle the migration perfectly, but they also improved our deployment process during the transition."
> - *Emily Rodriguez, DevOps Lead at AppTech Solutions*

> "The team's deep knowledge of both platforms made the migration process smooth and worry-free."
> - *Alex Thompson, CTO at DevMobile*

## Get Started

Ready to begin your migration to Capgo? [Schedule a consultation](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) with our migration team to discuss your specific needs and requirements.

### What to Expect
- Initial free consultation
- Detailed migration proposal
- Custom pricing based on your needs
- Comprehensive support throughout the process

Our expert team is ready to help you make a smooth transition to Capgo's modern, efficient platform.

[Contact us today](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to start your migration journey.

Commit message:

feat: add plugin ecosystem section to migration service page
Co-Authored-By: Martin DONADIEU <martin.donadieu@hey.com>

src/content/pages/migration-service.mdx, after:

---
title: Migration Service
description: Professional service to help you transition to Capgo's modern platform
---

# Migration Service

As the biggest plugin provider in the market and leading provider of live update solutions, we offer a professional migration service to help teams transition to Capgo. With billions of updates served daily and expertise in managing over 20 plugins, we ensure a smooth migration process. Our position as the market leader is backed by our extensive plugin ecosystem and proven track record of innovation.

## Service Overview

### What We Offer
- Complete migration strategy development
- Seamless transition process
- Custom CI/CD pipeline setup
- Live update system migration
- Comprehensive testing
- Post-migration support

### Our Process
1. **Initial Assessment**
   - Current setup evaluation
   - Requirements gathering
   - Timeline planning
   - Risk assessment

2. **Migration Planning**
   - Custom migration strategy
   - Contingency planning
   - Testing methodology
   - Timeline development

3. **Implementation**
   - Live update system migration
   - CI/CD pipeline setup
   - Configuration transfer
   - Testing and validation

4. **Post-Migration**
   - System verification
   - Performance monitoring
   - Team training
   - Documentation handover

## Why Choose Our Migration Service?

### Our Expertise
- **Scale**: Serving billions of updates across cloud and self-hosted environments
- **Experience**: Largest Capacitor plugin provider with 20+ maintained plugins
- **Track Record**: Successfully migrated numerous teams to our platform
- **Technical Depth**: Deep understanding of mobile app deployment architectures

### Client Success Stories

> "The migration team at Capgo made our transition completely seamless. Their expertise saved us weeks of work."
> - *David Williams, Engineering Director at MobileFirst*

> "Not only did they handle the migration perfectly, but they also improved our deployment process during the transition."
> - *Emily Rodriguez, DevOps Lead at AppTech Solutions*

> "The team's deep knowledge of both platforms made the migration process smooth and worry-free."
> - *Alex Thompson, CTO at DevMobile*

## Get Started

Ready to begin your migration to Capgo? [Schedule a consultation](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) with our migration team to discuss your specific needs and requirements.

### What to Expect
- Initial free consultation
- Detailed migration proposal
- Custom pricing based on your needs
- Comprehensive support throughout the process

Our expert team is ready to help you make a smooth transition to Capgo's modern, efficient platform.

[Contact us today](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to start your migration journey.
