src/content/blog/how-to-build-capacitor-app-in-xcode-cloud.md, before:

---
slug: "how-to-build-capacitor-app-in-xcode-cloud"
title: How to build Ionic Capacitor app in Xcode Cloud
description: Use Xcode cloud to build your Capacitor JS app and bypass the need of MacOS.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://x.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-09-01
updated_at: 2023-06-29
head_image: "/xcode_cloud.webp"
head_image_alt: Capacitor Xcode cloud build
tag: Tutorial
published: true

---

## Prerequisites

Before continuing with the tutorial…

-   Make sure you use GitHub
-   Use Capacitor
-   Your app is already deployed on Apple Store
-   Desire to read 😆…

Using Ionic is optional, for Cordova it could work, but I didn't try.

## Important about the price

![Price Xcode Cloud](/xcode_cloud_price.webp)

[https://developer.apple.com/xcode-cloud/](https://developer.apple.com/xcode-cloud/)

The service is ‘_free’_ up to the limit.  
You can see in the screenshot price and limits (prices as of the creation of the tutorial, they could undergo changes in the future)

🔴 **_Once warned of requirements and prices, if you like, we continue..._**

> **_📣_ In the post, we assume that we have the app created in Apple Store**

## Intro

To make Xcode build your Capacitor app, you need to set up a few things.

## Package Preparation

Be sure to have your build command in your `package.json` script.
Then add the `sync:ios` command like below.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "YOUR BUILD COMMAND",
    "sync:ios": "cap sync ios"
  }
}
```
This step will make the post script work simply

## Post clone script
This script will be run by Xcode cloud after the clone step

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

set -x

export HOMEBREW_NO_INSTALL_CLEANUP=TRUE
# Install CocoaPods
echo "📦 Install CocoaPods"
brew install cocoapods
brew install node@18
brew link node@18

# Install dependencies
npm ci
# or `pnpm install --frozen-lockfile` or `yarn install --frozen-lockfile` or bun install
npm run build 
# or npm run build
npm run sync:ios
```

Save this file in the root of your project and name it `ios/App/ci_scripts/ci_post_clone.sh`

Then make this file executable with this command `chmod +x ios/App/ci_scripts/ci_post_clone.sh`

## Create an Xcode workflow

Open Xcode (yes, to remove Xcode you need Xcode)

And go to this tab :
![Xcode step 1](/xcode_step_1.webp)

Click on create workflow, select your app, click next like below.

![Xcode step 2](/xcode_step_2.webp)

Click on Edit workflow on the left
![Xcode step 2](/xcode_step_3.webp)

Go to the environments tab and choose like below Mac 12.4 and check the proper option
![Xcode step 3](/xcode_step_3.webp)

Choose your start condition.
If you use the same build as us, I suggest using Tag instead of branch, to avoid double build.

Set your env variable
![Xcode step 4](/xcode_step_4.webp)

Connect your GitHub account
![Xcode step 5](/xcode_step_5.webp)

![Xcode step 6](/xcode_step_6.webp)


Then enable and the workflow and commit your first change, you should see your build running in Xcode.

## **Build Processing**

In Xcode Cloud, **you are billed based on the minutes** you have used for running your CI/CD workflow. From experience, it takes about 10–15 minutes before a build can be processed in the Apple Store.

For private projects, the estimated cost per build can go up to **$0.008/min x 5 mins = $0.4**, or more, depending on the configuration or dependencies of your project.

For Open-source projects, this shouldn’t be a problem at all. See [pricing](https://github.com/pricing/).

Commit message:

fix: add maxsockets fix for build

src/content/blog/how-to-build-capacitor-app-in-xcode-cloud.md, after:

---
slug: "how-to-build-capacitor-app-in-xcode-cloud"
title: How to build Ionic Capacitor app in Xcode Cloud
description: Use Xcode cloud to build your Capacitor JS app and bypass the need of MacOS.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_url: https://x.com/martindonadieu
created_at: 2022-09-01
updated_at: 2023-06-29
head_image: "/xcode_cloud.webp"
head_image_alt: Capacitor Xcode cloud build
tag: Tutorial
published: true

---

## Prerequisites

Before continuing with the tutorial…

-   Make sure you use GitHub
-   Use Capacitor
-   Your app is already deployed on Apple Store
-   Desire to read 😆…

Using Ionic is optional, for Cordova it could work, but I didn't try.

## Important about the price

![Price Xcode Cloud](/xcode_cloud_price.webp)

[https://developer.apple.com/xcode-cloud/](https://developer.apple.com/xcode-cloud/)

The service is ‘_free’_ up to the limit.  
You can see in the screenshot price and limits (prices as of the creation of the tutorial, they could undergo changes in the future)

🔴 **_Once warned of requirements and prices, if you like, we continue..._**

> **_📣_ In the post, we assume that we have the app created in Apple Store**

## Intro

To make Xcode build your Capacitor app, you need to set up a few things.

## Package Preparation

Be sure to have your build command in your `package.json` script.
Then add the `sync:ios` command like below.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "YOUR BUILD COMMAND",
    "sync:ios": "cap sync ios"
  }
}
```
This step will make the post script work simply

## Post clone script
This script will be run by Xcode cloud after the clone step

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

set -x

export HOMEBREW_NO_INSTALL_CLEANUP=TRUE
# Install CocoaPods
echo "📦 Install CocoaPods"
brew install cocoapods
brew install node@18
brew link node@18

# Install dependencies
# XCode Cloud is literally broken for 2 months now - https://developer.apple.com/forums/thread/738136?answerId=774510022#774510022
npm config set maxsockets 3
npm ci
# or `pnpm install --frozen-lockfile` or `yarn install --frozen-lockfile` or bun install
npm run build 
# or npm run build
npm run sync:ios
```

Save this file in the root of your project and name it `ios/App/ci_scripts/ci_post_clone.sh`

Then make this file executable with this command `chmod +x ios/App/ci_scripts/ci_post_clone.sh`

## Create an Xcode workflow

Open Xcode (yes, to remove Xcode you need Xcode)

And go to this tab :
![Xcode step 1](/xcode_step_1.webp)

Click on create workflow, select your app, click next like below.

![Xcode step 2](/xcode_step_2.webp)

Click on Edit workflow on the left
![Xcode step 2](/xcode_step_3.webp)

Go to the environments tab and choose like below Mac 12.4 and check the proper option
![Xcode step 3](/xcode_step_3.webp)

Choose your start condition.
If you use the same build as us, I suggest using Tag instead of branch, to avoid double build.

Set your env variable
![Xcode step 4](/xcode_step_4.webp)

Connect your GitHub account
![Xcode step 5](/xcode_step_5.webp)

![Xcode step 6](/xcode_step_6.webp)


Then enable and the workflow and commit your first change, you should see your build running in Xcode.

## **Build Processing**

In Xcode Cloud, **you are billed based on the minutes** you have used for running your CI/CD workflow. From experience, it takes about 10–15 minutes before a build can be processed in the Apple Store.

For private projects, the estimated cost per build can go up to **$0.008/min x 5 mins = $0.4**, or more, depending on the configuration or dependencies of your project.

For Open-source projects, this shouldn’t be a problem at all. See [pricing](https://github.com/pricing/).
