src/content/docs/fr/docs/how-to.mdx, before:

---
title: Comment faire
description: 'Comment utiliser Capgo, tutoriels, astuces et conseils'
sidebar:
  order: 1
locale: fr
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<LinkCard
	title="Comment fonctionne la gestion des versions dans Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Comment publier une version majeure dans Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-release-major-version-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Comment envoyer une mise à jour spécifique à un utilisateur ou à un groupe"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users/"
/>

## CI / CD

<LinkCard
	title="Construction et publication automatiques avec GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Gérer les versions de développement et de production avec GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

## Contribution

<LinkCard
	title="Contribuer à l'open source de Capgo"
	description="githubcom"
	href="https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTINGmd"
/>

Commit message:

fix(docs): update Korean and Chinese documentation for social login and uploader plugins, including minor text corrections and formatting adjustments

src/content/docs/fr/docs/how-to.mdx, after:

---
title: Comment faire
description: 'Comment utiliser Capgo, tutoriels, astuces et conseils'
sidebar:
  order: 1
locale: fr
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<LinkCard
	title="How version works in Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="How to release major version in Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-release-major-version-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="How to send specific update to one user or a group"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users/"
/>


## CI / CD


<LinkCard
	title="Automatic build and release with GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manage development and production build with GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

## Contributing


<LinkCard
	title="Contributing to Capgo open source"
	description="github.com"
	href="https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md"
/>
