src/content/docs/ko/docs/how-to.mdx, before:

---
title: So geht's
description: 'Capgo 사용 방법, 튜토리얼, 팁과 요령'
sidebar:
  order: 1
locale: ko
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<LinkCard
	title="Capgo에서 버전이 작동하는 방식"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Capgo에서 메이저 버전을 출시하는 방법"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-release-major-version-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="특정 사용자나 그룹에게 특정 업데이트를 보내는 방법"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users/"
/>


## CI / CD


<LinkCard
	title="GitHub Actions를 사용한 자동 빌드 및 릴리스"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="GitHub Actions를 사용한 개발 및 프로덕션 빌드 관리"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

## 기여하기


<LinkCard
	title="Capgo 오픈소스에 기여하기"
	description="githubcom"
	href="https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTINGmd"
/>

Commit message:

fix(docs): update Korean and Chinese documentation for social login and uploader plugins, including minor text corrections and formatting adjustments

src/content/docs/ko/docs/how-to.mdx, after:

---
title: So geht's
description: 'Capgo 사용 방법, 튜토리얼, 팁과 요령'
sidebar:
  order: 1
locale: ko
---
import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<LinkCard
	title="How version works in Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-version-work-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="How to release major version in Capgo"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-release-major-version-in-capgo/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="How to send specific update to one user or a group"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/how-to-send-specific-version-to-users/"
/>


## CI / CD


<LinkCard
	title="Automatic build and release with GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Manage development and production build with GitHub Actions"
	description="capgo.app"
	href="https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-build-and-release-with-github-actions/"
/>

## Contributing


<LinkCard
	title="Contributing to Capgo open source"
	description="github.com"
	href="https://github.com/Cap-go/capgo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md"
/>
