src/content/docs/fr/getting-started/add-an-app.mdx, before:

---
locale: fr
title: "Ajouter an Application"
description: "Ajouter an Application to your Capgo Compte, and Installer the plugin in your Application"
sidebar: 
  order: 2
prev: false
next: false
---

import { YouTube } from 'astro-embed';
import { Aside, Steps, LinkCard, Code } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Requirements

Before Commencer with Capgo, make sure you have:
- A Capacitor Application installed and configured. [Learn how to set up Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/getting-started/)
- Node.js 18 or later installed

## Introduction to Capgo
<YouTube id="NzXXKoyhTIo" title="Capgo in 15 min" />

## Mises à jour en direct are 3 step away


### Guided Configuration

<Steps>

1. Créer your Compte at [https://capgo.Application/register](https://capgo.Application/register).
![signup screenshot](/signup.webp "signup screenshot")

2. Use the Init commands to get started <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest init [APIKEY]`} lang="bash" /> You will be presented with a series of questions. Provide the necessary answers to complete the automated setup.<Aside type="tip">By following these steps, you'll be up and running in no time. If you need any further assistance during the process, our support team is [here to help](https://support.capgo.app). Happy onboarding!</Aside>

3. Déployer a live Mise à jour <LinkCard href="/docs/getting-started/Déployer/" title="Déployer a live Mise à jour" description="Learn how to Déployer a live Mise à jour to your Application" />

</Steps>

### Manual Configuration

In case the init Commande doesn't work for you, you can manually Ajouter an Application.

<Steps>

1. Connect the CLI to your account: <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest login [APIKEY]`} lang="bash" />

2. Add the app to your account with this command: <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest app add [APP_NAME]`} lang="bash" />

3. Install the plugin in your app: <Code code={`npm i @capgo/capacitor-updater`} lang="bash" />

4. Configure the plugin in your `capacitor.config` <Code code={`{\n  "plugins": {\n    CapacitorUpdater: {\n      "appId": "Your appID",\n      "autoUpdate": true,\n      "version": "1.0.0"\n    }\n  }\n}`} lang="json" />
  [See all Option Disponible](/docs/plugin/Paramètres/). This Information will be infer if not provided.

5. Call the init method as early as possible in your app: <Code code={`import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater';\nCapacitorUpdater.notifyAppReady();`} lang="typescript" />

6. Déployer a live Mise à jour <LinkCard href="/docs/getting-started/Déployer/" title="Déployer a live Mise à jour" description="Learn how to Déployer a live Mise à jour to your Application" />

</Steps>

Commit message:

feat(docs): update Node.js version requirement and add development environment details for 'Add an App' guide

src/content/docs/fr/getting-started/add-an-app.mdx, after:

---
locale: fr
title: "Ajouter an Application"
description: "Ajouter an Application to your Capgo Compte, and Installer the plugin in your Application"
sidebar: 
  order: 2
prev: false
next: false
---

import { YouTube } from 'astro-embed';
import { Aside, Steps, LinkCard, Code } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Requirements

Before Commencer with Capgo, make sure you have:
- A Capacitor Application installed and configured. [Learn how to set up Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/getting-started/)
- Node.js 20 or later installed
- One of the following development environments:
  - **macOS** with Xcode (for iOS development) and/or Android Studio (for Android development)
  - **Linux** with Android Studio (for Android development)
  - **Windows** with Android Studio (for Android development)

## Introduction to Capgo
<YouTube id="NzXXKoyhTIo" title="Capgo in 15 min" />

## Mises à jour en direct are 3 step away


### Guided Configuration

<Steps>

1. Créer your Compte at [https://capgo.Application/register](https://capgo.Application/register).
![signup screenshot](/signup.webp "signup screenshot")

2. Use the Init commands to get started <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest init [APIKEY]`} lang="bash" /> You will be presented with a series of questions. Provide the necessary answers to complete the automated setup.<Aside type="tip">By following these steps, you'll be up and running in no time. If you need any further assistance during the process, our support team is [here to help](https://support.capgo.app). Happy onboarding!</Aside>

3. Déployer a live Mise à jour <LinkCard href="/docs/getting-started/Déployer/" title="Déployer a live Mise à jour" description="Learn how to Déployer a live Mise à jour to your Application" />

</Steps>

### Manual Configuration

In case the init Commande doesn't work for you, you can manually Ajouter an Application.

<Steps>

1. Connect the CLI to your account: <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest login [APIKEY]`} lang="bash" />

2. Add the app to your account with this command: <Code code={`npx @capgo/cli@latest app add [APP_NAME]`} lang="bash" />

3. Install the plugin in your app: <Code code={`npm i @capgo/capacitor-updater`} lang="bash" />

4. Configure the plugin in your `capacitor.config` <Code code={`{\n  "plugins": {\n    CapacitorUpdater: {\n      "appId": "Your appID",\n      "autoUpdate": true,\n      "version": "1.0.0"\n    }\n  }\n}`} lang="json" />
  [See all Option Disponible](/docs/plugin/Paramètres/). This Information will be infer if not provided.

5. Call the init method as early as possible in your app: <Code code={`import { CapacitorUpdater } from '@capgo/capacitor-updater';\nCapacitorUpdater.notifyAppReady();`} lang="typescript" />

6. Déployer a live Mise à jour <LinkCard href="/docs/getting-started/Déployer/" title="Déployer a live Mise à jour" description="Learn how to Déployer a live Mise à jour to your Application" />

</Steps>
