src/content/blog/en/appflow-shutdown-alternative.md, before:

---
slug: appflow-shutdown-alternative
title: Ionic AppFlow Shutdown - What's Next for Your Mobile App Development?
description: >-
  With Ionic AppFlow shutting down, discover how Capgo provides a seamless transition 
  for your live updates and CI/CD needs at a fraction of the cost.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_image_url: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4084527?v=4'
author_url: 'https://x.com/martindonadieu'
created_at: 2025-02-09T00:00:00.000Z
updated_at: 2025-02-09T00:00:00.000Z
head_image: /appflow_alt.webp
head_image_alt: Appflow alternative illustration
keywords: Ionic AppFlow shutdown, mobile app development, live updates, OTA updates, continuous integration, mobile app updates, Capgo alternative
tag: News
published: true
locale: en
next_blog: ''
---

With the recent announcement of Ionic AppFlow's shutdown, many development teams are searching for alternatives to maintain their mobile app development workflow. If you're among those affected, we have good news: Capgo offers a comprehensive solution that not only replaces AppFlow's functionality but also provides enhanced features at a more accessible price point.

## What This Means for AppFlow Users

The shutdown of AppFlow leaves many teams needing to migrate their:
- Live update systems
- CI/CD pipelines
- App deployment workflows

However, this transition presents an opportunity to upgrade your development infrastructure while potentially reducing costs.

## Capgo: Your Complete AppFlow Alternative

Capgo stands ready as a mature, feature-rich alternative to AppFlow, offering:

### Live Updates Made Simple
- Deploy updates in less than 1 minute (compared to AppFlow's 10-minute average)
- Manage multiple update channels
- Track installation statistics
- Easily revert or change channel versions
- Test updates in a sandbox environment before deployment

### Seamless CI/CD Integration
Instead of being locked into a proprietary CI/CD system, Capgo allows you to:
- Integrate with your existing CI/CD infrastructure
- Use popular platforms like GitHub Actions
- Maintain full control over your build process
- Follow our detailed tutorials for [iOS](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-ios-build-github-action/), [Android](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-android-build-github-action/), and [CI/CD setup](https://capgo.app/blog/github-action-capacitor/) setup
- Or let us handle it all with our [CI/CD Done For You](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/mobile-ci-cd-done-for-you) service

## Why Choose Capgo?

1. **Cost-Effective**: Starting at just $14/month compared to AppFlow's $499/month
2. **Enhanced Security**: End-to-end encryption included in all plans
3. **Open Source**: 100% open-source, allowing for complete transparency and customization
4. **Modern Architecture**: Built specifically for Capacitor, ensuring optimal performance
5. **Rapid Updates**: Deliver changes to your users in under a minute

## Making the Switch

Transitioning from AppFlow to Capgo is straightforward:

1. [Register for a Capgo account](/register/)
2. Follow our migration guides
3. Set up your CI/CD pipeline using our tutorials
4. Start deploying updates through Capgo

For enterprise teams requiring dedicated support, [contact our sales team](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to discuss your specific needs and migration strategy.

## Beyond Basic Functionality

Capgo offers several advantages over AppFlow:
- Install statistics for better deployment tracking
- Sandbox testing environment
- Faster update delivery
- More affordable pricing structure
- Greater flexibility in CI/CD integration

## Our Commitment to the Ecosystem

The Ionic and Capacitor ecosystem remains strong and vibrant. At Capgo, we deeply value this ecosystem and are fully committed to its future. As a self-funded and sustainable company, we're not just providing alternatives – we're actively investing in the ecosystem's growth and stability.

### Why Trust Capgo?
We love Ionic and Capacitor, and we're here for the long haul. If any part of the ecosystem needs support, we stand ready to fork and maintain it – that's the power of open source. Our commitment isn't just words; it's backed by action:

### Proven Track Record
- **Massive Scale**: Serving over 30 million live updates daily in our cloud infrastructure, with even more in self-hosted environments
- **Active Development**: Created and maintained over 20 plugins in the Capacitor ecosystem: [explore our plugins](https://github.com/cap-go/)
- **Growing Community**: Successfully helping numerous teams transition to Capgo this year
- **Complete Solutions**: Providing comprehensive CI/CD solutions, from tutorials to full service integration
- **Sustainable Model**: Self-funded and profitable, ensuring long-term stability for our users

We're not just an alternative – we're actively building the future of mobile app development, ensuring that teams relying on these technologies have a reliable, sustainable path forward.


## Ready to Migrate?

Don't let AppFlow's shutdown disrupt your development workflow. [Start your journey with Capgo today](/register/) and experience a more efficient, cost-effective solution for your mobile app development needs.

For enterprise solutions and dedicated support, [schedule a call with our team](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to discuss your migration strategy.

Remember, Capgo isn't just an alternative – it's an upgrade to your mobile app development workflow, offering more features, better performance, and significant cost savings compared to AppFlow.

Commit message:

feat: add AppFlow to Capgo migration guide
Co-Authored-By: Martin DONADIEU <martin.donadieu@hey.com>

src/content/blog/en/appflow-shutdown-alternative.md, after:

---
slug: appflow-shutdown-alternative
title: Ionic AppFlow Shutdown - What's Next for Your Mobile App Development?
description: >-
  With Ionic AppFlow shutting down, discover how Capgo provides a seamless transition 
  for your live updates and CI/CD needs at a fraction of the cost.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_image_url: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4084527?v=4'
author_url: 'https://x.com/martindonadieu'
created_at: 2025-02-09T00:00:00.000Z
updated_at: 2025-02-09T00:00:00.000Z
head_image: /appflow_alt.webp
head_image_alt: Appflow alternative illustration
keywords: Ionic AppFlow shutdown, mobile app development, live updates, OTA updates, continuous integration, mobile app updates, Capgo alternative
tag: News
published: true
locale: en
next_blog: ''
---

With the recent announcement of Ionic AppFlow's shutdown, many development teams are searching for alternatives to maintain their mobile app development workflow. If you're among those affected, we have good news: Capgo offers a comprehensive solution that not only replaces AppFlow's functionality but also provides enhanced features at a more accessible price point.

## What This Means for AppFlow Users

The shutdown of AppFlow leaves many teams needing to migrate their:
- Live update systems
- CI/CD pipelines
- App deployment workflows

However, this transition presents an opportunity to upgrade your development infrastructure while potentially reducing costs.

## Capgo: Your Complete AppFlow Alternative

Capgo stands ready as a mature, feature-rich alternative to AppFlow, offering:

### Live Updates Made Simple
- Deploy updates in less than 1 minute (compared to AppFlow's 10-minute average)
- Manage multiple update channels
- Track installation statistics
- Easily revert or change channel versions
- Test updates in a sandbox environment before deployment

### Seamless CI/CD Integration
Instead of being locked into a proprietary CI/CD system, Capgo allows you to:
- Integrate with your existing CI/CD infrastructure
- Use popular platforms like GitHub Actions
- Maintain full control over your build process
- Follow our detailed tutorials for [iOS](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-ios-build-github-action/), [Android](https://capgo.app/blog/automatic-capacitor-android-build-github-action/), and [CI/CD setup](https://capgo.app/blog/github-action-capacitor/) setup
- Or let us handle it all with our [CI/CD Done For You](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/mobile-ci-cd-done-for-you) service

## Why Choose Capgo?

1. **Cost-Effective**: Starting at just $14/month compared to AppFlow's $499/month
2. **Enhanced Security**: End-to-end encryption included in all plans
3. **Open Source**: 100% open-source, allowing for complete transparency and customization
4. **Modern Architecture**: Built specifically for Capacitor, ensuring optimal performance
5. **Rapid Updates**: Deliver changes to your users in under a minute

## Making the Switch

Transitioning from AppFlow to Capgo is straightforward. Follow our [detailed migration guide](/docs/upgrade/from-appflow-to-capgo) to ensure a smooth transition:

1. [Register for a Capgo account](/register/)
2. Follow our migration guides
3. Set up your CI/CD pipeline using our tutorials
4. Start deploying updates through Capgo

For enterprise teams requiring dedicated support, [contact our sales team](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to discuss your specific needs and migration strategy.

## Beyond Basic Functionality

Capgo offers several advantages over AppFlow:
- Install statistics for better deployment tracking
- Sandbox testing environment
- Faster update delivery
- More affordable pricing structure
- Greater flexibility in CI/CD integration

## Our Commitment to the Ecosystem

The Ionic and Capacitor ecosystem remains strong and vibrant. At Capgo, we deeply value this ecosystem and are fully committed to its future. As a self-funded and sustainable company, we're not just providing alternatives – we're actively investing in the ecosystem's growth and stability.

### Why Trust Capgo?
We love Ionic and Capacitor, and we're here for the long haul. If any part of the ecosystem needs support, we stand ready to fork and maintain it – that's the power of open source. Our commitment isn't just words; it's backed by action:

### Proven Track Record
- **Massive Scale**: Serving over 30 million live updates daily in our cloud infrastructure, with even more in self-hosted environments
- **Active Development**: Created and maintained over 20 plugins in the Capacitor ecosystem: [explore our plugins](https://github.com/cap-go/)
- **Growing Community**: Successfully helping numerous teams transition to Capgo this year
- **Complete Solutions**: Providing comprehensive CI/CD solutions, from tutorials to full service integration
- **Sustainable Model**: Self-funded and profitable, ensuring long-term stability for our users

We're not just an alternative – we're actively building the future of mobile app development, ensuring that teams relying on these technologies have a reliable, sustainable path forward.


## Ready to Migrate?

Don't let AppFlow's shutdown disrupt your development workflow. [Start your journey with Capgo today](/register/) and experience a more efficient, cost-effective solution for your mobile app development needs.

For enterprise solutions and dedicated support, [schedule a call with our team](https://cal.com/martindonadieu/capgo-enterprise-inquiry) to discuss your migration strategy.

Remember, Capgo isn't just an alternative – it's an upgrade to your mobile app development workflow, offering more features, better performance, and significant cost savings compared to AppFlow.
