src/content/blog/en/managing-dependencies-in-capacitor-projects.md, before:

---
slug: managing-dependencies-in-capacitor-projects
title: Managing Dependencies in Capacitor Projects
description: Learn essential strategies for managing dependencies in Capacitor projects to enhance security, reduce technical debt, and ensure platform compatibility.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4084527?v=4
author_url: https://github.com/riderx
created_at: 2025-02-24T08:30:17.609Z
updated_at: 2025-10-10T02:23:14.000Z
head_image: https://assets.seobotai.com/capgo.app/67bbc47be5225d66b70936da-1740386039142.jpg
head_image_alt: Mobile Development
keywords: Capacitor, dependency management, mobile development, plugins, automation
tag: Development, Mobile, Updates
published: true
locale: en
next_blog: ''
---

Managing dependencies in [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) projects is essential for ensuring security, reducing technical debt, and maintaining compatibility across platforms. Here's what you need to know:

-   **Stay Updated**: Regularly update dependencies to avoid vulnerabilities and outdated features.
-   **Use Tools**: Leverage the Capacitor CLI, npm, yarn, and tools like `capacitor-build-safety` for smooth dependency management.
-   **Platform-Specific Needs**:
    -   iOS: Use [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/) and [Swift Package Manager](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/swift-packages) for dependencies.
    -   Android: Manage dependencies with [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) and ensure compatibility with API level 21+.
-   **Handle Issues**: Resolve common problems like sync errors, plugin conflicts, and SDK mismatches by cleaning builds, updating repos, and testing thoroughly.
-   **Automate**: Tools like [Capgo](https://capgo.app/) enable live updates, version control, and CI/CD integration, streamlining the process.

Dependency management impacts your app's stability and efficiency. Focus on consistent updates, testing, and automation to keep your project on track.

## Dependency Management in a Multi-Module Project

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z97sl7MrrzE" aria-label="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" style="width: 100%; height: 500px;" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Types of Dependencies in [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/)

![Capacitor](https://mars-images.imgix.net/seobot/screenshots/capacitorjs.com-4c1a6a7e452082d30f5bff9840b00b7d-2025-02-24.jpg?auto=compress)

Capacitor projects rely on various dependencies, each playing a specific role in cross-platform development. Let’s break down plugins and platform-specific configurations.

### Working with Capacitor Plugins

[Capacitor plugins](https://capgo.app/plugins/) connect JavaScript to native features, providing a unified web API. Official plugins from the Capacitor team make integration straightforward.

For instance, if you’re adding camera functionality, the setup might look like this:

| Platform | Dependency Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| iOS | `CapacitorCamera` (Pod) |
| Android | `com.capacitorjs:camera` (Maven) |
| Web | `@capacitor/camera` (npm) |

> "Capacitor provides a consistent, web-focused set of APIs that enable an app to stay as close to web standards as possible, while accessing rich native device features on platforms that support them." - Capacitor Documentation [\[3\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)

### Platform-Specific Dependencies

For iOS, you’ll need [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) CLI, CocoaPods, and support for iOS 11 or later [\[2\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/getting-started/dependencies).

On Android, make sure to use the Android SDK, [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/intro), and ensure compatibility with API level 21 or higher (Android 5.0 Lollipop), which covers most Android devices [\[2\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/getting-started/dependencies).

iOS dependencies are managed through the Podfile and .podspec, while Android uses Gradle for configuration. For example, misconfigured MLKit dependencies on either platform can lead to errors, highlighting the importance of accurate setup [\[4\]](https://ionic.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037704753-Capacitor-Plugin-Development-Adding-iOS-podfile-dependencies).

## Step-by-Step Dependency Management

Here's how to handle dependencies and keep your project running smoothly.

### Installing New Dependencies

To add JavaScript dependencies, use npm or yarn, then sync your native projects with the Capacitor CLI:

-   Use `npm install` or `yarn add` to install the required package.
-   Run `npx cap sync` to update iOS and Android projects.
-   Open Xcode and Android Studio to verify native project settings.

If you're adding [NativeScript](https://nativescript.org/) functionality, follow these steps:

-   Run `npm install @nativescript/capacitor`.
-   Build mobile components with `npm run build:mobile`.
-   Sync updates using `npx cap sync` [\[5\]](https://capacitor.nativescript.org/installation.html).

### Updating Project Dependencies

Keep your core and platform dependencies up-to-date with these steps:

1.  **Core Dependencies**  
    Update Capacitor core packages in the `/src-capacitor/package.json` file. Here's an example of the required versions:
    
    | Package | Version |
    | --- | --- |
    | @capacitor/app | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/cli | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/core | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/splash-screen | ^6.0.0 |
    
2.  **Platform Updates**
    
    -   For Android, run: `npm install @capacitor/android@latest` [\[6\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/android/updating).
    -   For iOS, execute: `pod repo update` [\[5\]](https://capacitor.nativescript.org/installation.html).

After updates, test your application on both platforms to ensure everything works as expected. Staying current reduces security risks and prevents technical debt.

### Common Dependency Problems and Solutions

Here are some common issues you might face and how to resolve them:

-   **Android Issues:**
    
    -   _"package android.support._ does not exist"\*: Run jetifier [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   _"Please select Android SDK"_: Perform a Gradle sync [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   Clear Android Studio caches and restart to apply pending changes [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
-   **iOS Issues:**
    
    -   Run `pod repo update` if sync fails.
    -   Clean the build folder in Xcode and restart.
    -   Confirm CocoaPods compatibility.
-   **Plugin Issues:**
    
    -   For _"Plugin Not Implemented"_ errors, check the sync status and ensure plugins load automatically [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   If ProGuard is enabled, add rules to preserve plugin classes [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).

> "Capacitor is a cross-platform native runtime that makes it easy to build performant mobile applications that run natively on iOS, Android, and more using modern web tooling." – Capacitor Documentation [\[3\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)

###### sbb-itb-f9944d2

## Dependency Management Guidelines

Managing dependencies effectively in Capacitor projects requires a structured approach with automation and thorough testing. Using the right tools and strategies ensures your project stays stable and up-to-date.

### Automation Tools for Dependencies

Automation tools can make managing dependencies much easier. For instance, **capacitor-build-safety** runs automated checks to catch unsynced Capacitor changes or missed web builds. This reduces deployment issues and keeps releases consistent across platforms [\[11\]](https://github.com/fkirc/capacitor-build-safety).

Another example is **capacitor-sync-version-cli**, which automates version synchronization and calculates Android's versionCode. This minimizes manual errors and keeps versions aligned [\[12\]](https://github.com/bjesuiter/capacitor-sync-version-cli).

Here's a quick comparison of key tools:

| Tool | Primary Function | Key Benefit |
| --- | --- | --- |
| capacitor-build-safety | Release safety checks | Avoids broken Android/iOS releases |
| capacitor-sync-version-cli | Version synchronization | Simplifies version management |
| npm audit | Security scanning | Detects vulnerabilities |
| Capgo/capacitor-updater | Live updates | Enables quick feature deployments |

### Documenting and Testing Dependencies

It's important to document and test dependencies as part of your workflow. Using **Dependency Injection (DI)** helps keep your code modular and easier to test [\[10\]](https://hackeryarn.com/post/universally-testable-dependencies/).

For testing Capacitor plugins, you can set up TypeScript path mapping. By creating a **mocks** directory and updating `tsconfig.spec.json` to map `@capacitor/*` to mock implementations, you can test components in a controlled environment [\[9\]](https://github.com/ionic-team/cap-plugin-mock-jasmine).

When dealing with dependency conflicts, especially with NPM 7 or later, follow this step-by-step process:

1.  **Assess the Situation**  
    Use `npm audit` to scan for vulnerabilities and log any issues [\[1\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/vscode/dependencies).
    
2.  **Resolve Conflicts**  
    Address peer dependency conflicts by upgrading dependencies iteratively until everything installs correctly [\[13\]](https://volt.build/news/2023/04/12/capacitor-and-npm-6.html).
    
3.  **Verify Updates**  
    After resolving issues, thoroughly test the updated dependencies. Use mocks for Capacitor plugins with testing frameworks like Jasmine [\[9\]](https://github.com/ionic-team/cap-plugin-mock-jasmine).
    

To make testing and maintenance easier in the long run, export your dependencies into a `deps` object. This simplifies mocking during tests and helps detect issues before they affect production environments [\[10\]](https://hackeryarn.com/post/universally-testable-dependencies/).

## Using [Capgo](https://capgo.app/) for Dependency Updates

![Capgo](https://mars-images.imgix.net/seobot/screenshots/capgo.app-26aea05b7e2e737b790a9becb40f7bc5-2025-02-24.jpg?auto=compress)

Capgo takes dependency management in Capacitor projects to the next level, making update deployment faster and more efficient. With over **464.4 million updates** delivered across **1,800 production apps** [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/), Capgo simplifies the process for developers.

### Capgo Core Functions

Capgo is all about quick updates and seamless code deployment. It allows developers to instantly push bug fixes, content changes, and new features while staying compliant with Apple and Google policies.

Here’s what Capgo offers:

-   **End-to-End Encryption**: Updates are securely encrypted, ensuring only authorized users can access them.
-   **CI/CD Integration**: Works smoothly with platforms like GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, and Azure DevOps to automate deployments.
-   **Version Control**: Easily manage and track different dependency versions across builds.
-   **Live Updates**: Roll out changes in just minutes.

These tools help developers save time and keep projects running smoothly.

To set up Capgo in your Capacitor project, use the following command:

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest init [APIKEY]
```

### Benefits for Development Teams

Teams using Capgo have seen an **81% improvement in release efficiency** [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/). Here’s why it stands out:

-   **Fast Deployment**: Push updates quickly and manage them with features like user assignment and rollback options.
-   **Affordable Pricing**: A one-time CI/CD setup fee of $2,600 makes it a budget-friendly choice compared to other tools.
-   **Improved Workflow**: Real-time monitoring and flexible organization tools give teams better control over their projects.

> "We practice agile development and @Capgo is mission-critical in delivering continuously to our users!" – Rodrigo Mantica [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/)

> "Capgo is an essential tool for developers, enabling productivity by bypassing lengthy review cycles." – Bessie Cooper [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/)

## Summary

Managing dependencies effectively is crucial for securing Capacitor projects and minimizing technical debt. Here's how you can do it:

-   **Version Control**: Use files like `package-lock.json` to lock dependencies, ensuring consistency and security [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).
-   **Security Checks**: Regularly scan all dependencies for vulnerabilities [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).
-   **Automation Tools**: Tools like Renovate or GitHub's Dependabot can simplify and automate dependency updates [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).

Modern tools make these tasks easier. For example, Capgo helps teams implement updates quickly and securely while staying compliant with platform requirements.

> "Keeping your dependencies up to date will ensure you are using supported and secure products. Ignoring updates will increase your technical debt making it harder to update in the future." - Capacitor Documentation [\[1\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/vscode/dependencies)

To maintain stability and security, aim for an SDK update cycle of 6–12 months and perform regular vulnerability scans [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).

Commit message:

Refactor pricing details for Capgo's OTA updates and CI/CD services across multiple blog posts to emphasize cost efficiency. Update monthly and one-time fees to reflect new pricing structure, highlighting OTA updates starting at $12/month and optional CI/CD setup for $2,600. Remove outdated references to $300/month CI/CD operations. Ensure consistency in messaging regarding Capgo's competitive advantages over Appflow and other alternatives.

src/content/blog/en/managing-dependencies-in-capacitor-projects.md, after:

---
slug: managing-dependencies-in-capacitor-projects
title: Managing Dependencies in Capacitor Projects
description: Learn essential strategies for managing dependencies in Capacitor projects to enhance security, reduce technical debt, and ensure platform compatibility.
author: Martin Donadieu
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4084527?v=4
author_url: https://github.com/riderx
created_at: 2025-02-24T08:30:17.609Z
updated_at: 2025-10-10T02:23:14.000Z
head_image: https://assets.seobotai.com/capgo.app/67bbc47be5225d66b70936da-1740386039142.jpg
head_image_alt: Mobile Development
keywords: Capacitor, dependency management, mobile development, plugins, automation
tag: Development, Mobile, Updates
published: true
locale: en
next_blog: ''
---

Managing dependencies in [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) projects is essential for ensuring security, reducing technical debt, and maintaining compatibility across platforms. Here's what you need to know:

-   **Stay Updated**: Regularly update dependencies to avoid vulnerabilities and outdated features.
-   **Use Tools**: Leverage the Capacitor CLI, npm, yarn, and tools like `capacitor-build-safety` for smooth dependency management.
-   **Platform-Specific Needs**:
    -   iOS: Use [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/) and [Swift Package Manager](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/swift-packages) for dependencies.
    -   Android: Manage dependencies with [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) and ensure compatibility with API level 21+.
-   **Handle Issues**: Resolve common problems like sync errors, plugin conflicts, and SDK mismatches by cleaning builds, updating repos, and testing thoroughly.
-   **Automate**: Tools like [Capgo](https://capgo.app/) enable live updates, version control, and CI/CD integration, streamlining the process.

Dependency management impacts your app's stability and efficiency. Focus on consistent updates, testing, and automation to keep your project on track.

## Dependency Management in a Multi-Module Project

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z97sl7MrrzE" aria-label="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" style="width: 100%; height: 500px;" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Types of Dependencies in [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/)

![Capacitor](https://mars-images.imgix.net/seobot/screenshots/capacitorjs.com-4c1a6a7e452082d30f5bff9840b00b7d-2025-02-24.jpg?auto=compress)

Capacitor projects rely on various dependencies, each playing a specific role in cross-platform development. Let’s break down plugins and platform-specific configurations.

### Working with Capacitor Plugins

[Capacitor plugins](https://capgo.app/plugins/) connect JavaScript to native features, providing a unified web API. Official plugins from the Capacitor team make integration straightforward.

For instance, if you’re adding camera functionality, the setup might look like this:

| Platform | Dependency Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| iOS | `CapacitorCamera` (Pod) |
| Android | `com.capacitorjs:camera` (Maven) |
| Web | `@capacitor/camera` (npm) |

> "Capacitor provides a consistent, web-focused set of APIs that enable an app to stay as close to web standards as possible, while accessing rich native device features on platforms that support them." - Capacitor Documentation [\[3\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)

### Platform-Specific Dependencies

For iOS, you’ll need [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) CLI, CocoaPods, and support for iOS 11 or later [\[2\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/getting-started/dependencies).

On Android, make sure to use the Android SDK, [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/intro), and ensure compatibility with API level 21 or higher (Android 5.0 Lollipop), which covers most Android devices [\[2\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/getting-started/dependencies).

iOS dependencies are managed through the Podfile and .podspec, while Android uses Gradle for configuration. For example, misconfigured MLKit dependencies on either platform can lead to errors, highlighting the importance of accurate setup [\[4\]](https://ionic.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360037704753-Capacitor-Plugin-Development-Adding-iOS-podfile-dependencies).

## Step-by-Step Dependency Management

Here's how to handle dependencies and keep your project running smoothly.

### Installing New Dependencies

To add JavaScript dependencies, use npm or yarn, then sync your native projects with the Capacitor CLI:

-   Use `npm install` or `yarn add` to install the required package.
-   Run `npx cap sync` to update iOS and Android projects.
-   Open Xcode and Android Studio to verify native project settings.

If you're adding [NativeScript](https://nativescript.org/) functionality, follow these steps:

-   Run `npm install @nativescript/capacitor`.
-   Build mobile components with `npm run build:mobile`.
-   Sync updates using `npx cap sync` [\[5\]](https://capacitor.nativescript.org/installation.html).

### Updating Project Dependencies

Keep your core and platform dependencies up-to-date with these steps:

1.  **Core Dependencies**  
    Update Capacitor core packages in the `/src-capacitor/package.json` file. Here's an example of the required versions:
    
    | Package | Version |
    | --- | --- |
    | @capacitor/app | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/cli | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/core | ^6.0.0 |
    | @capacitor/splash-screen | ^6.0.0 |
    
2.  **Platform Updates**
    
    -   For Android, run: `npm install @capacitor/android@latest` [\[6\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/v2/android/updating).
    -   For iOS, execute: `pod repo update` [\[5\]](https://capacitor.nativescript.org/installation.html).

After updates, test your application on both platforms to ensure everything works as expected. Staying current reduces security risks and prevents technical debt.

### Common Dependency Problems and Solutions

Here are some common issues you might face and how to resolve them:

-   **Android Issues:**
    
    -   _"package android.support._ does not exist"\*: Run jetifier [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   _"Please select Android SDK"_: Perform a Gradle sync [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   Clear Android Studio caches and restart to apply pending changes [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
-   **iOS Issues:**
    
    -   Run `pod repo update` if sync fails.
    -   Clean the build folder in Xcode and restart.
    -   Confirm CocoaPods compatibility.
-   **Plugin Issues:**
    
    -   For _"Plugin Not Implemented"_ errors, check the sync status and ensure plugins load automatically [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).
    -   If ProGuard is enabled, add rules to preserve plugin classes [\[8\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/android/troubleshooting).

> "Capacitor is a cross-platform native runtime that makes it easy to build performant mobile applications that run natively on iOS, Android, and more using modern web tooling." – Capacitor Documentation [\[3\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)

###### sbb-itb-f9944d2

## Dependency Management Guidelines

Managing dependencies effectively in Capacitor projects requires a structured approach with automation and thorough testing. Using the right tools and strategies ensures your project stays stable and up-to-date.

### Automation Tools for Dependencies

Automation tools can make managing dependencies much easier. For instance, **capacitor-build-safety** runs automated checks to catch unsynced Capacitor changes or missed web builds. This reduces deployment issues and keeps releases consistent across platforms [\[11\]](https://github.com/fkirc/capacitor-build-safety).

Another example is **capacitor-sync-version-cli**, which automates version synchronization and calculates Android's versionCode. This minimizes manual errors and keeps versions aligned [\[12\]](https://github.com/bjesuiter/capacitor-sync-version-cli).

Here's a quick comparison of key tools:

| Tool | Primary Function | Key Benefit |
| --- | --- | --- |
| capacitor-build-safety | Release safety checks | Avoids broken Android/iOS releases |
| capacitor-sync-version-cli | Version synchronization | Simplifies version management |
| npm audit | Security scanning | Detects vulnerabilities |
| Capgo/capacitor-updater | Live updates | Enables quick feature deployments |

### Documenting and Testing Dependencies

It's important to document and test dependencies as part of your workflow. Using **Dependency Injection (DI)** helps keep your code modular and easier to test [\[10\]](https://hackeryarn.com/post/universally-testable-dependencies/).

For testing Capacitor plugins, you can set up TypeScript path mapping. By creating a **mocks** directory and updating `tsconfig.spec.json` to map `@capacitor/*` to mock implementations, you can test components in a controlled environment [\[9\]](https://github.com/ionic-team/cap-plugin-mock-jasmine).

When dealing with dependency conflicts, especially with NPM 7 or later, follow this step-by-step process:

1.  **Assess the Situation**  
    Use `npm audit` to scan for vulnerabilities and log any issues [\[1\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/vscode/dependencies).
    
2.  **Resolve Conflicts**  
    Address peer dependency conflicts by upgrading dependencies iteratively until everything installs correctly [\[13\]](https://volt.build/news/2023/04/12/capacitor-and-npm-6.html).
    
3.  **Verify Updates**  
    After resolving issues, thoroughly test the updated dependencies. Use mocks for Capacitor plugins with testing frameworks like Jasmine [\[9\]](https://github.com/ionic-team/cap-plugin-mock-jasmine).
    

To make testing and maintenance easier in the long run, export your dependencies into a `deps` object. This simplifies mocking during tests and helps detect issues before they affect production environments [\[10\]](https://hackeryarn.com/post/universally-testable-dependencies/).

## Using [Capgo](https://capgo.app/) for Dependency Updates

![Capgo](https://mars-images.imgix.net/seobot/screenshots/capgo.app-26aea05b7e2e737b790a9becb40f7bc5-2025-02-24.jpg?auto=compress)

Capgo takes dependency management in Capacitor projects to the next level, making update deployment faster and more efficient. With over **464.4 million updates** delivered across **1,800 production apps** [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/), Capgo simplifies the process for developers.

### Capgo Core Functions

Capgo is all about quick updates and seamless code deployment. It allows developers to instantly push bug fixes, content changes, and new features while staying compliant with Apple and Google policies.

Here’s what Capgo offers:

-   **End-to-End Encryption**: Updates are securely encrypted, ensuring only authorized users can access them.
-   **CI/CD Integration**: Works smoothly with platforms like GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, and Azure DevOps to automate deployments.
-   **Version Control**: Easily manage and track different dependency versions across builds.
-   **Live Updates**: Roll out changes in just minutes.

These tools help developers save time and keep projects running smoothly.

To set up Capgo in your Capacitor project, use the following command:

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest init [APIKEY]
```

### Benefits for Development Teams

Teams using Capgo have seen an **81% improvement in release efficiency** [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/). Here’s why it stands out:

-   **Fast Deployment**: Push updates quickly and manage them with features like user assignment and rollback options.
-   **Affordable Pricing**: OTA updates start at just $12/month, making it a budget-friendly choice. Optional CI/CD setup service for building native apps is available for $2,600 one-time.
-   **Improved Workflow**: Real-time monitoring and flexible organization tools give teams better control over their projects.

> "We practice agile development and @Capgo is mission-critical in delivering continuously to our users!" – Rodrigo Mantica [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/)

> "Capgo is an essential tool for developers, enabling productivity by bypassing lengthy review cycles." – Bessie Cooper [\[14\]](https://capgo.app/)

## Summary

Managing dependencies effectively is crucial for securing Capacitor projects and minimizing technical debt. Here's how you can do it:

-   **Version Control**: Use files like `package-lock.json` to lock dependencies, ensuring consistency and security [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).
-   **Security Checks**: Regularly scan all dependencies for vulnerabilities [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).
-   **Automation Tools**: Tools like Renovate or GitHub's Dependabot can simplify and automate dependency updates [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).

Modern tools make these tasks easier. For example, Capgo helps teams implement updates quickly and securely while staying compliant with platform requirements.

> "Keeping your dependencies up to date will ensure you are using supported and secure products. Ignoring updates will increase your technical debt making it harder to update in the future." - Capacitor Documentation [\[1\]](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/vscode/dependencies)

To maintain stability and security, aim for an SDK update cycle of 6–12 months and perform regular vulnerability scans [\[7\]](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/node.js/best-practices).
