src/content/docs/docs/plugins/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Capacitor Plugins by Capgo
description: Explore our comprehensive collection of Capacitor plugins to extend your app's native capabilities with powerful features.
sidebar:
  order: 0
  label: "All Plugins"
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard, Icon } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Welcome to the Capgo Capacitor Plugins collection! We maintain a suite of high-quality, well-documented plugins to help you build amazing native experiences in your Capacitor apps.

## ⭐ Capgo Cloud - Live Updates

<LinkCard
  title="Capacitor Updater"
  description="The core plugin powering Capgo Cloud - deliver instant updates to your Capacitor apps without app store delays. Push fixes and features directly to your users."
  href="/docs/plugins/updater/"
/>

The Updater plugin is the foundation of Capgo Cloud, enabling you to:
- 🚀 Deploy updates instantly without app store reviews
- 📱 Update your app's JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and assets
- 🎯 Target specific user segments with channels
- 📊 Monitor update success with built-in analytics
- 🔒 Secure updates with encryption and code signing

## 🚀 Featured Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Social Login"
    description="Seamless authentication with Google, Apple, and Facebook. One plugin for all major social providers."
    href="/docs/plugins/social-login/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Purchases"
    description="Implement in-app purchases and subscriptions with a unified API for iOS and Android."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-purchases/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Camera Preview"
    description="Display real-time camera feed in your app with full control over capture and settings."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-camera-preview/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Data Storage SQLite"
    description="Fast and secure key-value storage powered by SQLite with optional encryption."
    href="/docs/plugins/data-storage-sqlite/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📱 Device & System Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Market"
    description="Link to app stores for ratings, reviews, and app updates."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-market/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Biometric"
    description="Access biometric authentication APIs for secure app access."
    href="/docs/plugins/native-biometric/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Shake"
    description="Detect shake gestures for interactive features and debug menus."
    href="/docs/plugins/shake/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Navigation Bar"
    description="Customize Android navigation bar color to match your app theme."
    href="/docs/plugins/navigation-bar/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Home Indicator"
    description="Control iOS home indicator visibility for immersive experiences."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-home-indicator/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="NFC"
    description="Read and write NFC tags with native support for iOS and Android."
    href="/docs/plugins/nfc/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Barometer"
    description="Access device barometer for atmospheric pressure and altitude readings."
    href="/docs/plugins/barometer/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Accelerometer"
    description="Read device accelerometer for motion detection and orientation tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/accelerometer/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🎥 Media & Camera Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Screen Recorder"
    description="Record your device screen for tutorials, demos, or user feedback."
    href="/docs/plugins/screen-recorder/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="IVS Player"
    description="Amazon IVS integration for ultra-low latency live streaming."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-ivs-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Audio"
    description="High-performance native audio engine for games and apps."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-audio/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Mute"
    description="Detect if the device mute switch is enabled or disabled."
    href="/docs/plugins/mute/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Video Player"
    description="Native video playback with subtitles, fullscreen, and comprehensive controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/video-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="YouTube Player"
    description="Embed YouTube videos with full player API control and event handling."
    href="/docs/plugins/youtube-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="FFmpeg"
    description="Video encoding and processing powered by FFmpeg for compression and conversion."
    href="/docs/plugins/ffmpeg/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Volume Buttons"
    description="Listen to hardware volume button presses for custom controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/volume-buttons/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Audio Recorder"
    description="Record audio on iOS, Android, and Web with simple controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/audio-recorder/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🛠️ Utility Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Uploader"
    description="Background file upload with progress tracking and resumable uploads."
    href="/docs/plugins/uploader/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Flash"
    description="Control device flashlight/torch for utility and camera features."
    href="/docs/plugins/flash/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Geocoder"
    description="Forward and reverse geocoding using native platform APIs."
    href="/docs/plugins/nativegeocoder/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="InAppBrowser"
    description="Open web content in a customizable in-app browser."
    href="/docs/plugins/inappbrowser/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Crisp"
    description="Integrate Crisp chat support directly into your mobile app."
    href="/docs/plugins/crisp/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Live Reload"
    description="Connect to your dev server for instant hot reloading during development."
    href="/docs/plugins/live-reload/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Contacts"
    description="Access and manage device contacts with read and write capabilities."
    href="/docs/plugins/contacts/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🤖 AI & Advanced Media

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="LLM"
    description="Run Large Language Models locally with Apple Intelligence support."
    href="/docs/plugins/llm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="StreamCall"
    description="Enable high-quality video streaming and calling capabilities."
    href="/docs/plugins/streamcall/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="JW Player"
    description="Professional video player with advanced streaming features."
    href="/docs/plugins/jw-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Ricoh 360 Camera"
    description="Control and capture from Ricoh 360 degree cameras."
    href="/docs/plugins/ricoh360-camera/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📍 Location & Background Services

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Background Geolocation"
    description="Track device location in background with battery optimization."
    href="/docs/plugins/background-geolocation/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Alarm"
    description="Schedule native alarms and notifications even when app is closed."
    href="/docs/plugins/alarm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="iBeacon"
    description="Proximity detection and beacon region monitoring for location-based features."
    href="/docs/plugins/ibeacon/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📞 Communication & Analytics

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Twilio Voice"
    description="Make and receive phone calls using Twilio Voice API."
    href="/docs/plugins/twilio-voice/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="GTM"
    description="Google Tag Manager integration for analytics and tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/gtm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="AppInsights"
    description="Application insights and analytics using the Apptopia AppInsights SDK."
    href="/docs/plugins/appinsights/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="WeChat"
    description="WeChat SDK integration for authentication, sharing, payments, and mini-programs."
    href="/docs/plugins/wechat/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🔐 Security & System

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Is Root"
    description="Detect if device is rooted or jailbroken for security."
    href="/docs/plugins/is-root/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="App Attest"
    description="Cross-platform device attestation using Apple App Attest and Google Play Integrity Standard."
    href="/docs/plugins/app-attest/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Persistent Account"
    description="Maintain user accounts across app reinstalls."
    href="/docs/plugins/persistent-account/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Autofill Save Password"
    description="Enable password autofill and save functionality."
    href="/docs/plugins/autofill-save-password/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="App Tracking Transparency"
    description="Request and check iOS App Tracking Transparency permission for IDFA access."
    href="/docs/plugins/app-tracking-transparency/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Age Range"
    description="Cross-platform age range detection using Google Play Age Signals and Apple DeclaredAgeRange."
    href="/docs/plugins/age-range/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📊 Android-Specific Features

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Kiosk"
    description="Lock Android devices into kiosk mode with launcher functionality and hardware key control."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-kiosk/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Usage Stats"
    description="Access Android app usage statistics and screen time data."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-usagestatsmanager/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Inline Install"
    description="Enable inline app installation on Android devices."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-inline-install/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Age Signals"
    description="Access Google Play Age Signals to detect supervised accounts and verified users."
    href="/docs/plugins/age-signals/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="WebView Version Checker"
    description="Check if the active Android WebView provider is outdated and show a native update prompt."
    href="/docs/plugins/webview-version-checker/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📥 Download & Navigation

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Downloader"
    description="Background file downloads with progress tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/downloader/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Launch Navigator"
    description="Launch navigation apps with addresses and coordinates."
    href="/docs/plugins/launch-navigator/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🎯 Why Choose Capgo Plugins?

<Card icon="approve-check">
  **Well Maintained**: Regular updates and compatibility with latest Capacitor versions
</Card>
<Card icon="open-book">
  **Comprehensive Docs**: Detailed documentation with examples for every plugin
</Card>
<Card icon="puzzle">
  **Easy Integration**: Simple APIs that follow Capacitor best practices
</Card>
<Card icon="setting">
  **TypeScript Support**: Full TypeScript definitions for better development experience
</Card>

## 🚀 Getting Started

Each plugin follows a similar installation pattern:

1. **Install the plugin** using your preferred package manager
2. **Sync your project** with `npx cap sync`
3. **Configure platform-specific settings** if needed
4. **Start using the plugin** in your code

Visit each plugin's documentation for detailed setup instructions and API references.

## 💡 Need Help?

- 📖 Check the individual plugin documentation
- 💬 Join our [Discord community](https://discord.capgo.app)
- 🐛 Report issues on the plugin's GitHub repository
- 📧 Contact support for enterprise inquiries

## 🛠️ Need a Custom Plugin?

Can't find the exact functionality you need? We can help!

<LinkCard
  title="Custom Plugin Development"
  description="Our team specializes in building custom Capacitor plugins tailored to your specific requirements. From complex native integrations to unique device features, we've got you covered."
  href="/consulting/"
  icon="external"
/>

Whether you need:
- 🔧 A completely new plugin built from scratch
- 🔄 Modifications to existing plugins
- 🤝 Expert consulting on native development
- 📱 Platform-specific implementations

[Get in touch with our team](/consulting/) to discuss your custom plugin needs.

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Each plugin is open source and available on GitHub. Feel free to:

- Report bugs and request features
- Submit pull requests
- Improve documentation
- Share your use cases

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2rem;">
  <strong>Built with ❤️ by the Capgo team</strong>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: add Persona plugin metadata and website documentation

src/content/docs/docs/plugins/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Capacitor Plugins by Capgo
description: Explore our comprehensive collection of Capacitor plugins to extend your app's native capabilities with powerful features.
sidebar:
  order: 0
  label: "All Plugins"
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard, Icon } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Welcome to the Capgo Capacitor Plugins collection! We maintain a suite of high-quality, well-documented plugins to help you build amazing native experiences in your Capacitor apps.

## ⭐ Capgo Cloud - Live Updates

<LinkCard
  title="Capacitor Updater"
  description="The core plugin powering Capgo Cloud - deliver instant updates to your Capacitor apps without app store delays. Push fixes and features directly to your users."
  href="/docs/plugins/updater/"
/>

The Updater plugin is the foundation of Capgo Cloud, enabling you to:
- 🚀 Deploy updates instantly without app store reviews
- 📱 Update your app's JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and assets
- 🎯 Target specific user segments with channels
- 📊 Monitor update success with built-in analytics
- 🔒 Secure updates with encryption and code signing

## 🚀 Featured Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Social Login"
    description="Seamless authentication with Google, Apple, and Facebook. One plugin for all major social providers."
    href="/docs/plugins/social-login/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Purchases"
    description="Implement in-app purchases and subscriptions with a unified API for iOS and Android."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-purchases/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Camera Preview"
    description="Display real-time camera feed in your app with full control over capture and settings."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-camera-preview/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Data Storage SQLite"
    description="Fast and secure key-value storage powered by SQLite with optional encryption."
    href="/docs/plugins/data-storage-sqlite/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📱 Device & System Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Market"
    description="Link to app stores for ratings, reviews, and app updates."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-market/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Biometric"
    description="Access biometric authentication APIs for secure app access."
    href="/docs/plugins/native-biometric/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Shake"
    description="Detect shake gestures for interactive features and debug menus."
    href="/docs/plugins/shake/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Navigation Bar"
    description="Customize Android navigation bar color to match your app theme."
    href="/docs/plugins/navigation-bar/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Home Indicator"
    description="Control iOS home indicator visibility for immersive experiences."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-home-indicator/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="NFC"
    description="Read and write NFC tags with native support for iOS and Android."
    href="/docs/plugins/nfc/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Barometer"
    description="Access device barometer for atmospheric pressure and altitude readings."
    href="/docs/plugins/barometer/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Accelerometer"
    description="Read device accelerometer for motion detection and orientation tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/accelerometer/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🎥 Media & Camera Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Screen Recorder"
    description="Record your device screen for tutorials, demos, or user feedback."
    href="/docs/plugins/screen-recorder/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="IVS Player"
    description="Amazon IVS integration for ultra-low latency live streaming."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-ivs-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Audio"
    description="High-performance native audio engine for games and apps."
    href="/docs/plugins/capacitor-native-audio/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Mute"
    description="Detect if the device mute switch is enabled or disabled."
    href="/docs/plugins/mute/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Video Player"
    description="Native video playback with subtitles, fullscreen, and comprehensive controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/video-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="YouTube Player"
    description="Embed YouTube videos with full player API control and event handling."
    href="/docs/plugins/youtube-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="FFmpeg"
    description="Video encoding and processing powered by FFmpeg for compression and conversion."
    href="/docs/plugins/ffmpeg/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Volume Buttons"
    description="Listen to hardware volume button presses for custom controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/volume-buttons/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Audio Recorder"
    description="Record audio on iOS, Android, and Web with simple controls."
    href="/docs/plugins/audio-recorder/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🛠️ Utility Plugins

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Uploader"
    description="Background file upload with progress tracking and resumable uploads."
    href="/docs/plugins/uploader/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Flash"
    description="Control device flashlight/torch for utility and camera features."
    href="/docs/plugins/flash/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Native Geocoder"
    description="Forward and reverse geocoding using native platform APIs."
    href="/docs/plugins/nativegeocoder/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="InAppBrowser"
    description="Open web content in a customizable in-app browser."
    href="/docs/plugins/inappbrowser/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Crisp"
    description="Integrate Crisp chat support directly into your mobile app."
    href="/docs/plugins/crisp/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Live Reload"
    description="Connect to your dev server for instant hot reloading during development."
    href="/docs/plugins/live-reload/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Contacts"
    description="Access and manage device contacts with read and write capabilities."
    href="/docs/plugins/contacts/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🤖 AI & Advanced Media

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="LLM"
    description="Run Large Language Models locally with Apple Intelligence support."
    href="/docs/plugins/llm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="StreamCall"
    description="Enable high-quality video streaming and calling capabilities."
    href="/docs/plugins/streamcall/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="JW Player"
    description="Professional video player with advanced streaming features."
    href="/docs/plugins/jw-player/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Ricoh 360 Camera"
    description="Control and capture from Ricoh 360 degree cameras."
    href="/docs/plugins/ricoh360-camera/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📍 Location & Background Services

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Background Geolocation"
    description="Track device location in background with battery optimization."
    href="/docs/plugins/background-geolocation/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Alarm"
    description="Schedule native alarms and notifications even when app is closed."
    href="/docs/plugins/alarm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="iBeacon"
    description="Proximity detection and beacon region monitoring for location-based features."
    href="/docs/plugins/ibeacon/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📞 Communication & Analytics

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Twilio Voice"
    description="Make and receive phone calls using Twilio Voice API."
    href="/docs/plugins/twilio-voice/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="GTM"
    description="Google Tag Manager integration for analytics and tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/gtm/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="AppInsights"
    description="Application insights and analytics using the Apptopia AppInsights SDK."
    href="/docs/plugins/appinsights/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="WeChat"
    description="WeChat SDK integration for authentication, sharing, payments, and mini-programs."
    href="/docs/plugins/wechat/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🔐 Security & System

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Is Root"
    description="Detect if device is rooted or jailbroken for security."
    href="/docs/plugins/is-root/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="App Attest"
    description="Cross-platform device attestation using Apple App Attest and Google Play Integrity Standard."
    href="/docs/plugins/app-attest/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Persona"
    description="Launch Persona identity verification inquiries with native SDK support on iOS and Android."
    href="/docs/plugins/persona/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Persistent Account"
    description="Maintain user accounts across app reinstalls."
    href="/docs/plugins/persistent-account/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Autofill Save Password"
    description="Enable password autofill and save functionality."
    href="/docs/plugins/autofill-save-password/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="App Tracking Transparency"
    description="Request and check iOS App Tracking Transparency permission for IDFA access."
    href="/docs/plugins/app-tracking-transparency/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Age Range"
    description="Cross-platform age range detection using Google Play Age Signals and Apple DeclaredAgeRange."
    href="/docs/plugins/age-range/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📊 Android-Specific Features

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Kiosk"
    description="Lock Android devices into kiosk mode with launcher functionality and hardware key control."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-kiosk/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Usage Stats"
    description="Access Android app usage statistics and screen time data."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-usagestatsmanager/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Android Inline Install"
    description="Enable inline app installation on Android devices."
    href="/docs/plugins/android-inline-install/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Age Signals"
    description="Access Google Play Age Signals to detect supervised accounts and verified users."
    href="/docs/plugins/age-signals/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="WebView Version Checker"
    description="Check if the active Android WebView provider is outdated and show a native update prompt."
    href="/docs/plugins/webview-version-checker/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 📥 Download & Navigation

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard
    title="Downloader"
    description="Background file downloads with progress tracking."
    href="/docs/plugins/downloader/"
  />
  <LinkCard
    title="Launch Navigator"
    description="Launch navigation apps with addresses and coordinates."
    href="/docs/plugins/launch-navigator/"
  />
</CardGrid>

## 🎯 Why Choose Capgo Plugins?

<Card icon="approve-check">
  **Well Maintained**: Regular updates and compatibility with latest Capacitor versions
</Card>
<Card icon="open-book">
  **Comprehensive Docs**: Detailed documentation with examples for every plugin
</Card>
<Card icon="puzzle">
  **Easy Integration**: Simple APIs that follow Capacitor best practices
</Card>
<Card icon="setting">
  **TypeScript Support**: Full TypeScript definitions for better development experience
</Card>

## 🚀 Getting Started

Each plugin follows a similar installation pattern:

1. **Install the plugin** using your preferred package manager
2. **Sync your project** with `npx cap sync`
3. **Configure platform-specific settings** if needed
4. **Start using the plugin** in your code

Visit each plugin's documentation for detailed setup instructions and API references.

## 💡 Need Help?

- 📖 Check the individual plugin documentation
- 💬 Join our [Discord community](https://discord.capgo.app)
- 🐛 Report issues on the plugin's GitHub repository
- 📧 Contact support for enterprise inquiries

## 🛠️ Need a Custom Plugin?

Can't find the exact functionality you need? We can help!

<LinkCard
  title="Custom Plugin Development"
  description="Our team specializes in building custom Capacitor plugins tailored to your specific requirements. From complex native integrations to unique device features, we've got you covered."
  href="/consulting/"
  icon="external"
/>

Whether you need:
- 🔧 A completely new plugin built from scratch
- 🔄 Modifications to existing plugins
- 🤝 Expert consulting on native development
- 📱 Platform-specific implementations

[Get in touch with our team](/consulting/) to discuss your custom plugin needs.

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Each plugin is open source and available on GitHub. Feel free to:

- Report bugs and request features
- Submit pull requests
- Improve documentation
- Share your use cases

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2rem;">
  <strong>Built with ❤️ by the Capgo team</strong>
</div>
