src/content/docs/docs/plugins/flash/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to install and use the Flash plugin to control your device's flashlight in your Capacitor app.
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Code, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { PackageManagers } from 'starlight-package-managers'

<Steps>
1. **Install the package**
   <PackageManagers pkg="@capgo/capacitor-flash" pkgManagers={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']} />

2. **Sync with native projects**
   <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="cap" args="sync" pkgManagers={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']} />
</Steps>

## Usage

Import the plugin and use its methods to control the flashlight:

```typescript
import { CapacitorFlash } from '@capgo/capacitor-flash';

// Check if flashlight is available
const checkFlashlight = async () => {
  const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
  console.log('Flashlight available:', value);
};

// Turn on flashlight
const turnOn = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
};

// Turn off flashlight
const turnOff = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
};

// Check if flashlight is on
const checkStatus = async () => {
  const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isSwitchedOn();
  console.log('Flashlight is on:', value);
};

// Toggle flashlight
const toggle = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
};
```

## API Reference

### isAvailable()

Checks if flashlight is available on the device.

```typescript
const result = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
// Returns: { value: boolean }
```

### switchOn(options?)

Turns the flashlight on.

```typescript
interface SwitchOnOptions {
  intensity?: number; // 0.0 to 1.0 (iOS only)
}

await CapacitorFlash.switchOn({ intensity: 0.5 });
```

### switchOff()

Turns the flashlight off.

```typescript
await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
```

### isSwitchedOn()

Checks if the flashlight is currently on.

```typescript
const result = await CapacitorFlash.isSwitchedOn();
// Returns: { value: boolean }
```

### toggle()

Toggles the flashlight on/off.

```typescript
await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
```

## Complete Example

```typescript
import { CapacitorFlash } from '@capgo/capacitor-flash';

export class FlashlightService {
  private isOn = false;

  async init() {
    const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
    if (!value) {
      throw new Error('Flashlight not available on this device');
    }
  }

  async toggle() {
    if (this.isOn) {
      await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    } else {
      await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
    }
    this.isOn = !this.isOn;
  }

  async turnOn(intensity?: number) {
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOn({ intensity });
    this.isOn = true;
  }

  async turnOff() {
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    this.isOn = false;
  }

  async strobe(intervalMs: number = 100, duration: number = 3000) {
    const endTime = Date.now() + duration;
    
    while (Date.now() < endTime) {
      await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
      await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, intervalMs));
    }
    
    // Ensure flashlight is off after strobe
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    this.isOn = false;
  }
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Check availability first**
   Always verify flashlight availability before using it:
   ```typescript
   const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
   if (!value) {
     // Show alternative UI or disable flashlight features
   }
   ```

2. **Handle errors gracefully**
   ```typescript
   try {
     await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
   } catch (error) {
     console.error('Failed to turn on flashlight:', error);
   }
   ```

3. **Turn off when not needed**
   Always turn off the flashlight when your app goes to background or when the feature is no longer needed to save battery.

4. **Avoid rapid toggling**
   Implement debouncing to prevent rapid on/off switching which could damage the LED or drain battery.

## Platform Notes

### iOS
- Requires iOS 10.0+
- Uses `AVCaptureDevice` torch mode
- Supports intensity control (0.0 to 1.0)

### Android
- Requires Android 6.0 (API 23)+
- Uses Camera2 API
- Intensity control not supported (uses default brightness)

### Web
- Not supported on web platform
- Will return `isAvailable: false`

Commit message:

docs: update flashlight plugin documentation for web support and usage

src/content/docs/docs/plugins/flash/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to install and use the Flash plugin to control your device's flashlight in your Capacitor app.
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Code, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { PackageManagers } from 'starlight-package-managers'

<Steps>
1. **Install the package**
   <PackageManagers pkg="@capgo/capacitor-flash" pkgManagers={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']} />

2. **Sync with native projects**
   <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="cap" args="sync" pkgManagers={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']} />
</Steps>

## Usage

Import the plugin and use its methods to control the flashlight:

```typescript
import { CapacitorFlash } from '@capgo/capacitor-flash';

// Check if flashlight is available
const checkFlashlight = async () => {
  const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
  console.log('Flashlight available:', value);
};

// Turn on flashlight
const turnOn = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
};

// Turn off flashlight
const turnOff = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
};

// Check if flashlight is on
const checkStatus = async () => {
  const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isSwitchedOn();
  console.log('Flashlight is on:', value);
};

// Toggle flashlight
const toggle = async () => {
  await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
};
```

## API Reference

### isAvailable()

Checks if flashlight is available on the device.

```typescript
const result = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
// Returns: { value: boolean }
```

### switchOn(options?)

Turns the flashlight on.

```typescript
interface SwitchOnOptions {
  intensity?: number; // 0.0 to 1.0 (iOS only)
}

await CapacitorFlash.switchOn({ intensity: 0.5 });
```

### switchOff()

Turns the flashlight off.

```typescript
await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
```

### isSwitchedOn()

Checks if the flashlight is currently on.

```typescript
const result = await CapacitorFlash.isSwitchedOn();
// Returns: { value: boolean }
```

### toggle()

Toggles the flashlight on/off.

```typescript
await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
```

## Complete Example

```typescript
import { CapacitorFlash } from '@capgo/capacitor-flash';

export class FlashlightService {
  private isOn = false;

  async init() {
    const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
    if (!value) {
      throw new Error('Flashlight not available on this device');
    }
  }

  async toggle() {
    if (this.isOn) {
      await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    } else {
      await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
    }
    this.isOn = !this.isOn;
  }

  async turnOn(intensity?: number) {
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOn({ intensity });
    this.isOn = true;
  }

  async turnOff() {
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    this.isOn = false;
  }

  async strobe(intervalMs: number = 100, duration: number = 3000) {
    const endTime = Date.now() + duration;
    
    while (Date.now() < endTime) {
      await CapacitorFlash.toggle();
      await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, intervalMs));
    }
    
    // Ensure flashlight is off after strobe
    await CapacitorFlash.switchOff();
    this.isOn = false;
  }
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Check availability first**
   Always verify flashlight availability before using it:
   ```typescript
   const { value } = await CapacitorFlash.isAvailable();
   if (!value) {
     // Show alternative UI or disable flashlight features
   }
   ```

2. **Handle errors gracefully**
   ```typescript
   try {
     await CapacitorFlash.switchOn();
   } catch (error) {
     console.error('Failed to turn on flashlight:', error);
   }
   ```

3. **Turn off when not needed**
   Always turn off the flashlight when your app goes to background or when the feature is no longer needed to save battery.

4. **Avoid rapid toggling**
   Implement debouncing to prevent rapid on/off switching which could damage the LED or drain battery.

## Platform Notes

### iOS
- Requires iOS 10.0+
- Uses `AVCaptureDevice` torch mode
- Supports intensity control (0.0 to 1.0)

### Android
- Requires Android 6.0 (API 23)+
- Uses Camera2 API
- Intensity control not supported (uses default brightness)

### Web
- Supported on browsers with MediaDevices API and torch capability
- Uses the camera stream to access the device's flashlight
- Requires user permission to access the camera
- Works best on mobile browsers (Chrome on Android)
- Desktop browsers typically return `isAvailable: false` (no torch hardware)
- Intensity control not supported on web
