src/content/docs/docs/self-hosted/local-dev/s3.mdx, before:

---
title: "Self-hosting S3"
description: "How to set up minio to work with capgo"
sidebar:
    order: 2
---

## What this tutorial will cover?

This tutorial will show how to set up [minio](https://min.io/) to work with capgo.

This is not technically required to run capgo.

Setting S3 allows for uploading bundles from the [CLI](/docs/tooling/cli/).

:::danger
⚠️ This tutorial is not supposed to be used in production.\
Use this only in local development.
:::

## Requirements

 1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

## Getting started

First, create a new directory.

Then create a folder named `data` inside.

Then run the following command:
```bash
docker run \
   -p 9000:9000 \
   -p 9090:9090 \
   --user $(id -u):$(id -g) \
   --name minio1 \
   -e "MINIO_ROOT_USER=ROOTUSER" \
   -e "MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=CHANGEME123" \
   -v PATH_TO_DATA_FOLDER_CREATED_IN_PREVIOUS_STEP:/data \
   quay.io/minio/minio server /data --console-address ":9090"
```

If you ever close the console window with this container you can start it with:
```bash
docker start minio1
```

If you ever need to change the configuration of minio you can remove the container by running:
```bash
docker rm minio1
```
⚠️ This command does not remove minio data

## Setting up edge functions

Now that we have a S3 server running we need to set up capgo edge functions to use our S3 server.

To do that we need to create an ENV file in `capgo/supabase` named `.env.local`

This file should look like this:
```bash
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=test
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=test
API_SECRET=testsecret
PLAN_MAKER=test
PLAN_SOLO=test
PLAN_TEAM=test
# Below is the accually important setup for S3
S3_ENDPOINT=172.17.0.1
S3_REGION=dev-region
S3_PORT=9000
S3_SSL=false
R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ROOTUSER
R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=CHANGEME123
```

The ip `172.17.0.1` is a docker ip that can be both reached by our local machine and the docker edge functions container

To run edge functions with our new env file use
```bash
supabase functions serve --env-file ./supabase/.env.local
```

## Setting up CLI to use S3

The CLI will not work by default with minio. The following change to `capacitor.config.ts`[^1] is required.
```ts
const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  appId: 'com.demo.app',
  appName: 'demoApp',
  webDir: 'dist',
  bundledWebRuntime: false,
  plugins: {
    CapacitorUpdater : {
      // Without this localS3 the upload command will fail
      localS3: true
    },
  },
};
```

[^1]: File is located in your app directory

Commit message:

Document the usage of host.docker.internal in minio

src/content/docs/docs/self-hosted/local-dev/s3.mdx, after:

---
title: "Self-hosting S3"
description: "How to set up minio to work with capgo"
sidebar:
    order: 2
---

## What this tutorial will cover?

This tutorial will show how to set up [minio](https://min.io/) to work with capgo.

This is not technically required to run capgo.

Setting S3 allows for uploading bundles from the [CLI](/docs/tooling/cli/).

:::danger
⚠️ This tutorial is not supposed to be used in production.\
Use this only in local development.
:::

## Requirements

 1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

## Getting started

First, create a new directory.

Then create a folder named `data` inside.

Then run the following command:
```bash
docker run \
   -p 9000:9000 \
   -p 9090:9090 \
   --user $(id -u):$(id -g) \
   --name minio1 \
   -e "MINIO_ROOT_USER=ROOTUSER" \
   -e "MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=CHANGEME123" \
   -v PATH_TO_DATA_FOLDER_CREATED_IN_PREVIOUS_STEP:/data \
   quay.io/minio/minio server /data --console-address ":9090"
```

If you ever close the console window with this container you can start it with:
```bash
docker start minio1
```

If you ever need to change the configuration of minio you can remove the container by running:
```bash
docker rm minio1
```
⚠️ This command does not remove minio data

## Setting up edge functions

Now that we have a S3 server running we need to set up capgo edge functions to use our S3 server.

To do that we need to create an ENV file in `capgo/supabase` named `.env.local`

This file should look like this:
```bash
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=test
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=test
API_SECRET=testsecret
PLAN_MAKER=test
PLAN_SOLO=test
PLAN_TEAM=test
# Below is the accually important setup for S3
S3_ENDPOINT=host.docker.internal
S3_REGION=dev-region
S3_PORT=9000
S3_SSL=false
R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ROOTUSER
R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=CHANGEME123
```

The ip `host.docker.internal` is a docker ip that can be both reached only by docker internally, but we replace it in the code with `0.0.0.0` so that minio can be reached from localhost.

To run edge functions with our new env file use
```bash
supabase functions serve --env-file ./supabase/.env.local
```

## Setting up CLI to use S3

The CLI will not work by default with minio. The following change to `capacitor.config.ts`[^1] is required.
```ts
const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  appId: 'com.demo.app',
  appName: 'demoApp',
  webDir: 'dist',
  bundledWebRuntime: false,
  plugins: {
    CapacitorUpdater : {
      // Without this localS3 the upload command will fail
      localS3: true
    },
  },
};
```

[^1]: File is located in your app directory
