src/content/docs/docs/cli/cloud-build/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to Capgo Build
description: Build iOS and Android apps in the cloud without local setup. No Mac required for iOS builds.
sidebar:
  order: 0
  label: Introduction
---

import { Card, CardGrid, Aside, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Capgo Build is a cloud-based native app compilation service for Capacitor apps. It lets you build iOS and Android apps without maintaining local development environments - no Xcode, no Android Studio, no Mac hardware required.

## What Capgo Build Does

Capgo Build compiles the **native parts** of your Capacitor app in the cloud:

- **iOS builds** run on dedicated Apple Silicon (Mac Mini M4) machines
- **Android builds** run in isolated Docker containers
- **Automatic code signing** handles certificates, provisioning profiles, and keystores
- **Direct store submission** uploads signed apps to App Store Connect and Google Play

You trigger builds with a single CLI command that works from anywhere - your local machine, GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, or any CI/CD pipeline.

## When to Use Capgo Build vs Live Updates

Capgo offers two complementary features for updating your app. Here's when to use each:

| Scenario | Live Updates | Capgo Build |
|----------|:------------:|:-----------:|
| Bug fix in JavaScript/TypeScript code | ✓ | |
| UI changes (HTML, CSS, images) | ✓ | |
| Updating web dependencies | ✓ | |
| Adding or removing a Capacitor plugin | | ✓ |
| Updating a native SDK version | | ✓ |
| Changing native permissions (Info.plist, AndroidManifest) | | ✓ |
| Updating Capacitor version | | ✓ |
| Modifying native code (Swift, Kotlin, Java) | | ✓ |
| Changing app icon or splash screen | | ✓ |
| First app store submission | | ✓ |

<Aside>
**Live Updates** push JavaScript changes instantly without app store review. **Capgo Build** creates new native binaries when you change native code. Most teams use Live Updates daily and Capgo Build occasionally when native changes are needed.
</Aside>

## Why Use Capgo Build

<CardGrid>
  <Card title="No Mac Required for iOS" icon="laptop">
    Build and ship iOS apps without Mac hardware. Anyone on Windows, Linux, or any CI/CD system can trigger iOS builds and publish to TestFlight.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Skip Local Environment Setup" icon="rocket">
    No need to install Xcode, Android Studio, or manage SDK versions. Capgo Build handles all native tooling - you just run the CLI command.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Centralized Credentials" icon="setting">
    Store your certificates and keystores in your CI/CD secrets once. Any team member can trigger builds without needing signing credentials on their local machine.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Works With Any CI/CD" icon="github">
    A single CLI command integrates with any pipeline. GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins - trigger builds as part of your existing workflow.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Real-Time Build Logs" icon="list-format">
    Watch your build progress live in your terminal. Logs stream via Server-Sent Events so you can debug issues instantly as they happen.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Direct Store Submission" icon="approve-check">
    Signed apps upload directly to App Store Connect and Google Play. No manual steps between build completion and store submission.
  </Card>
</CardGrid>

## How It Works

When you run the build command:

1. **Upload** - The CLI zips only what's needed (native platform folder + native dependencies) and uploads to secure cloud storage
2. **Build** - Your app compiles on dedicated infrastructure using Fastlane
3. **Sign** - Certificates and keystores are applied (they exist only in memory during the build)
4. **Submit** - Signed apps are uploaded directly to App Store Connect or Google Play
5. **Cleanup** - All build artifacts and credentials are automatically deleted

Your source code stays on your machine. Only the platform-specific native code is uploaded.

## Security Model

Capgo Build is designed with zero credential storage:

- **Runtime-only credentials** - Certificates and keystores exist only in memory during the build, never written to disk
- **Ephemeral environments** - Each build runs in isolation and is destroyed after completion
- **No log storage** - Build logs stream to your terminal only, never stored on Capgo servers
- **Minimal upload** - Only the native platform you request is uploaded, not your full codebase

## Pricing

Build time is the only cost:

- Build minutes are included in your Capgo plan
- Extra minutes available via credit system
- iOS builds run on Mac Mini M4 (2x cost multiplier due to hardware costs)
- Android builds run in Docker containers (1x cost)
- No storage fees

## Next Steps

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard 
    title="Getting Started" 
    description="Create your first build and see Capgo Build in action."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/getting-started/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="Credentials Setup" 
    description="Configure certificates for iOS and keystores for Android."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/credentials/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="iOS Builds" 
    description="Complete guide to building and submitting iOS apps."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/ios/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="Android Builds" 
    description="Complete guide to building and submitting Android apps."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/android/"
  />
</CardGrid>

Commit message:

docs: explain what gets build better + fix false claims

src/content/docs/docs/cli/cloud-build/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to Capgo Build
description: Build iOS and Android apps in the cloud without local setup. No Mac required for iOS builds.
sidebar:
  order: 0
  label: Introduction
---

import { Card, CardGrid, Aside, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Capgo Build is a cloud-based native app compilation service for Capacitor apps. It lets you build iOS and Android apps without maintaining local development environments - no Xcode, no Android Studio, no Mac hardware required.

## What Capgo Build Does

Capgo Build compiles the **native parts** of your Capacitor app in the cloud:

- **iOS builds** run on dedicated Apple Silicon (Mac Mini M4) machines
- **Android builds** run in isolated Docker containers
- **Automatic code signing** handles certificates, provisioning profiles, and keystores
- **Direct store submission** uploads signed apps to App Store Connect and Google Play

You trigger builds with a single CLI command that works from anywhere - your local machine, GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, or any CI/CD pipeline.

## When to Use Capgo Build vs Live Updates

Capgo offers two complementary features for updating your app. Here's when to use each:

| Scenario | Live Updates | Capgo Build |
|----------|:------------:|:-----------:|
| Bug fix in JavaScript/TypeScript code | ✓ | |
| UI changes (HTML, CSS, images) | ✓ | |
| Updating web dependencies | ✓ | |
| Adding or removing a Capacitor plugin | | ✓ |
| Updating a native SDK version | | ✓ |
| Changing native permissions (Info.plist, AndroidManifest) | | ✓ |
| Updating Capacitor version | | ✓ |
| Modifying native code (Swift, Kotlin, Java) | | ✓ |
| Changing app icon or splash screen | | ✓ |
| First app store submission | | ✓ |

<Aside>
**Live Updates** push JavaScript changes instantly without app store review. **Capgo Build** creates new native binaries when you change native code. Most teams use Live Updates daily and Capgo Build occasionally when native changes are needed.
</Aside>

## Why Use Capgo Build

<CardGrid>
  <Card title="No Mac Required for iOS" icon="laptop">
    Build and ship iOS apps without Mac hardware. Anyone on Windows, Linux, or any CI/CD system can trigger iOS builds and publish to TestFlight.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Skip Local Environment Setup" icon="rocket">
    No need to install Xcode, Android Studio, or manage SDK versions. Capgo Build handles all native tooling - you just run the CLI command.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Centralized Credentials" icon="setting">
    Store your certificates and keystores in your CI/CD secrets once. Any team member can trigger builds without needing signing credentials on their local machine.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Works With Any CI/CD" icon="github">
    A single CLI command integrates with any pipeline. GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins - trigger builds as part of your existing workflow.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Real-Time Build Logs" icon="list-format">
    Watch your build progress live in your terminal. Logs stream via Server-Sent Events so you can debug issues instantly as they happen.
  </Card>

  <Card title="Direct Store Submission" icon="approve-check">
    Signed apps upload directly to App Store Connect and Google Play. No manual steps between build completion and store submission.
  </Card>
</CardGrid>

## How It Works

When you run the build command:

1. **Upload** - The CLI zips only what's needed (native platform folder + native dependencies) and uploads to secure cloud storage
2. **Build** - Your app compiles on dedicated infrastructure using Fastlane
3. **Sign** - Certificates and keystores are applied (they exist only in memory during the build)
4. **Submit** - Signed apps are uploaded directly to App Store Connect or Google Play
5. **Cleanup** - All build artifacts and credentials are automatically deleted

Your source code stays on your machine. Only the platform-specific native code is uploaded.

## Security Model

Capgo Build is designed with zero credential storage:

- **Runtime-only credentials** - Certificates and keystores are never stored in Capgo. They are uploaded and removed immediately after the build finishes.
- **Ephemeral environments** - Each build runs in isolation and is destroyed after completion
- **No log storage** - Build logs stream to your terminal only, never stored on Capgo servers
- **Minimal upload** - Only the native platform you request is uploaded, not your full codebase. [See exactly what gets uploaded](/docs/cli/cloud-build/getting-started/#what-gets-built)

## Pricing

Build time is the only cost:

- Build minutes are included in your Capgo plan
- Extra minutes available via credit system
- iOS builds run on Mac Mini M4 (2x cost multiplier due to hardware costs)
- Android builds run in Docker containers (1x cost)
- No storage fees

## Next Steps

<CardGrid>
  <LinkCard 
    title="Getting Started" 
    description="Create your first build and see Capgo Build in action."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/getting-started/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="Credentials Setup" 
    description="Configure certificates for iOS and keystores for Android."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/credentials/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="iOS Builds" 
    description="Complete guide to building and submitting iOS apps."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/ios/"
  />
  <LinkCard 
    title="Android Builds" 
    description="Complete guide to building and submitting Android apps."
    href="/docs/cli/cloud-build/android/"
  />
</CardGrid>
