src/content/docs/docs/plugins/updater/debugging.mdx, before:

---
title: "Debugging"
description: "How to debug your updates of Capgo and understand the issue you can have with your configuration"
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Understanding cloud logs:

### Sent from the backend

| code                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **InvalidIp**                                    | The user is located in a Google data center and the update is less than 4 hours old. This is done to prevent Google bots' devices from counting as devices in your account. |
| **needPlanUpgrade** (previously **needUpgrade**) | Indicates that you have reached the limit of your plan, and the device will not receive updates until you upgrade or until the next month.                                  |
| **noNew**                                        | The device has the latest available version.                                                                                                                                |
| **disablePlatformIos**                           | The device is on the iOS platform, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                            |
| **disablePlatformAndroid**                       | The device is on the Android platform, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                        |
| **disableAutoUpdate**                            | "major" | "minor" | "version_number" | "none"                                       |
| **disableAutoUpdateUnderNative**                 | The device has version (`1.2.3`), and the channel has an update (`1.2.2`) under the device version to send, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                   |
| **disableDevBuild**                              | The device has a dev build, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                                   |
| **disableEmulator**                              | The device is an emulator, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                                    |
| **cannotGetBundle**                          | An error occurred while trying to retrieve the bundle information.                                                                                          |
| **cannotUpdateViaPrivateChannel**              | Device attempted an update via a private channel it doesn't have access to.                                                                                    |
| **channelMisconfigured**                       | The channel configuration is invalid or incomplete.                                                                                                                 |
| **disableAutoUpdateMetadata**                  | Automatic updates based on metadata changes are disabled.                                                                                                         |
| **disableAutoUpdateToMajor**                   | Automatic updates to major versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **disableAutoUpdateToMinor**                   | Automatic updates to minor versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **disableAutoUpdateToPatch**                   | Automatic updates to patch versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **missingBundle**                              | The requested bundle was not found on the server.                                                                                                                   |
| **NoChannelOrOverride**                        | No channel is set for the device and no override is provided.                                                                                                     |


### Sent from the device

| code  | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **get**               | Info for downloading the new version has been sent to the device.                 |
| **delete**            | One bundle has been deleted on the device.                                        |
| **set**               | A bundle has been set on the device.                                              |
| **set_fail**          | The bundle failed to set.                                                         |
| **reset**             | The device reset to the `builtin` bundle.                                         |
| **download_XX**       | A new bundle has been downloaded - progress indicated by XX% (increments of 10%). |
| **download_complete** | The new bundle has finished downloading.                                          |
| **download_fail**     | The new bundle failed to download.                                                |
| **update_fail**       | The new bundle has been installed but failed to call `notifyAppReady`.            |
| **checksum_fail**     | The new bundle failed to validate the checksum.                                   |
| **windows_path_fail** | The zip has files who contain windows path who are illegal                        |
| **canonical_path_fail** | The path of files is not canonical                                              |
| **directory_path_fail** | There is an error in the path of zip files                                         |
| **unzip_fail**          | unzip failed                                                                   |
| **low_mem_fail** | Download failed because of low memory in the device                                    |
| **app_moved_to_background** | The application entered the background state.                                   |
| **app_moved_to_foreground** | The application entered the foreground state.                                   |
| **decrypt_fail**        | Failed to decrypt the downloaded bundle.                                          |
| **getChannel**          | The current channel for the device was queried.                                   |
| **setChannel**          | A channel was successfully set for the device.                                    |
| **uninstall**           | The application was uninstalled or Capgo data cleared.                            |

### Bundle status

* `SUCCESS`: install bundle done
* `ERROR`: install or download failed
* `PENDING`: Download done, pending release
* `DELETED`: Bundle deleted, still presented for stats
* `DOWNLOADING`: Currently downloading a bundle

## Understanding device logs:

### Debug command:

There is a debug command for Capgo cloud users.

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest app debug
```

This will allow you to check all events happening in the app and find a solution if updates don't happen.

### IOS

to find your logs on Xcode

<LinkCard
    title="Getting the Device Log in Xcode"
    href="https://intercom.help/deploygate/en/articles/4682692-getting-the-device-log-in-xcode"
/>

### Android:

to find your logs on Android studio

<LinkCard
    title="View logs with Logcat"
    href="https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/am-logcat"
/>

### Explanations Logs

* `Failed to download from` **=>** same as **download\_fail**
* `notifyAppReady was not called, roll back current bundle` => same as as **update\_fail**

## Finding the downloaded bundle in your device

### iOS

To debug on iOS, you need to dump the app on your computer, you can do it like this:

Xcode has a built-in feature for inspecting the file system of developer-installed apps on an iOS device.
![image](/ios_debug_update_1.webp)

To achieve this:

* Connect your device to your Mac and select Window > Devices in the Xcode menubar.
* Select your device in the left pane under the Devices section.
* This will show a list of developer-installed apps for that device.
* Select the app you want to inspect and then select the 3 dots icon near the bottom of the screen.
* Here you can view the current file system by selecting download a snapshot of it.

![image](/ios_debug_update_2.webp)

Selecting Download Container... will download and export a snapshot of the file system as a .xcappdata file that you can browse through.

![image](/ios_debug_update_3.webp)

Right-click on this file and select Show Package Contents to open the folder.

Open the App Data folder, and you should now see a few folders like Documents, Library, tmp, etc.

![image](/ios_debug_update_4.webp)

Then you will find a version in 2 folders:

`library/NoCloud/ionic_built_snapshots` is necessary after the app reboot

and `documents/versions` for hot reload

### Android

To debug on Android, you need to access the device from Android Studio:

* Click View > Tool Windows > Device File Explorer or click the Device File Explorer button in the tool window bar to open the Device File Explorer.
* Select a device from the dropdown list.
* Open the path **data/data/APP\_NAME/** where **APP\_NAME is your app ID.**

![image](/android_debug_update.webp)

Then Find the `versions` folder to see all the versions

:::tip[Did you know?]
On Android, all versions are stored in one folder, unlike IOS where it has to be duplicated in two locations.
:::

## Understanding ios production crash logs

<LinkCard
    title="How to review your app's crash logs"
    href="https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=nra79npr"
/>

Commit message:

fix: update debugging and handling-stats documentation with new status codes

src/content/docs/docs/plugins/updater/debugging.mdx, after:

---
title: "Debugging"
description: "How to debug your updates of Capgo and understand the issue you can have with your configuration"
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

import { LinkCard, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Understanding cloud logs:

### Sent from the backend

| code                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **InvalidIp**                                    | The user is located in a Google data center and the update is less than 4 hours old. This is done to prevent Google bots' devices from counting as devices in your account. |
| **needPlanUpgrade** (previously **needUpgrade**) | Indicates that you have reached the limit of your plan, and the device will not receive updates until you upgrade or until the next month.                                  |
| **noNew**                                        | The device has the latest available version.                                                                                                                                |
| **disablePlatformIos**                           | The device is on the iOS platform, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                            |
| **disablePlatformAndroid**                       | The device is on the Android platform, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                        |
| **disableAutoUpdate**                            | "major" | "minor" | "version_number" | "none"                                       |
| **disableAutoUpdateUnderNative**                 | The device has version (`1.2.3`), and the channel has an update (`1.2.2`) under the device version to send, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                   |
| **disableDevBuild**                              | The device has a dev build, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                                   |
| **disableEmulator**                              | The device is an emulator, but that is disabled in the channel settings.                                                                                                    |
| **cannotGetBundle**                          | An error occurred while trying to retrieve the bundle information.                                                                                          |
| **cannotUpdateViaPrivateChannel**              | Device attempted an update via a private channel it doesn't have access to.                                                                                    |
| **channelMisconfigured**                       | The channel configuration is invalid or incomplete.                                                                                                                 |
| **disableAutoUpdateMetadata**                  | Automatic updates based on metadata changes are disabled.                                                                                                         |
| **disableAutoUpdateToMajor**                   | Automatic updates to major versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **disableAutoUpdateToMinor**                   | Automatic updates to minor versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **disableAutoUpdateToPatch**                   | Automatic updates to patch versions are disabled in channel settings.                                                                                             |
| **missingBundle**                              | The requested bundle was not found on the server.                                                                                                                   |
| **NoChannelOrOverride**                        | No channel is set for the device and no override is provided.                                                                                                     |
| **rateLimited**                                | The device has been rate limited due to excessive requests.                                                                                                        |


### Sent from the device

| code  | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **ping**              | Internal test action used to verify the stats system is working correctly.        |
| **get**               | Info for downloading the new version has been sent to the device.                 |
| **delete**            | One bundle has been deleted on the device.                                        |
| **set**               | A bundle has been set on the device.                                              |
| **set_fail**          | The bundle failed to set.                                                         |
| **reset**             | The device reset to the `builtin` bundle.                                         |
| **download_XX**       | A new bundle has been downloaded - progress indicated by XX% (increments of 10%). |
| **download_complete** | The new bundle has finished downloading.                                          |
| **download_fail**     | The new bundle failed to download.                                                |
| **update_fail**       | The new bundle has been installed but failed to call `notifyAppReady`.            |
| **checksum_fail**     | The new bundle failed to validate the checksum.                                   |
| **windows_path_fail** | The zip has files who contain windows path who are illegal                        |
| **canonical_path_fail** | The path of files is not canonical                                              |
| **directory_path_fail** | There is an error in the path of zip files                                         |
| **unzip_fail**          | unzip failed                                                                   |
| **low_mem_fail** | Download failed because of low memory in the device                                    |
| **app_moved_to_background** | The application entered the background state.                                   |
| **app_moved_to_foreground** | The application entered the foreground state.                                   |
| **decrypt_fail**        | Failed to decrypt the downloaded bundle.                                          |
| **getChannel**          | The current channel for the device was queried.                                   |
| **setChannel**          | A channel was successfully set for the device.                                    |
| **uninstall**           | The application was uninstalled or Capgo data cleared.                            |
| **blocked_by_server_url** | The update was blocked by the server URL configuration.                         |

### Bundle status

* `SUCCESS`: install bundle done
* `ERROR`: install or download failed
* `PENDING`: Download done, pending release
* `DELETED`: Bundle deleted, still presented for stats
* `DOWNLOADING`: Currently downloading a bundle

## Understanding device logs:

### Debug command:

There is a debug command for Capgo cloud users.

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest app debug
```

This will allow you to check all events happening in the app and find a solution if updates don't happen.

### IOS

to find your logs on Xcode

<LinkCard
    title="Getting the Device Log in Xcode"
    href="https://intercom.help/deploygate/en/articles/4682692-getting-the-device-log-in-xcode"
/>

### Android:

to find your logs on Android studio

<LinkCard
    title="View logs with Logcat"
    href="https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/am-logcat"
/>

### Explanations Logs

* `Failed to download from` **=>** same as **download\_fail**
* `notifyAppReady was not called, roll back current bundle` => same as as **update\_fail**

## Finding the downloaded bundle in your device

### iOS

To debug on iOS, you need to dump the app on your computer, you can do it like this:

Xcode has a built-in feature for inspecting the file system of developer-installed apps on an iOS device.
![image](/ios_debug_update_1.webp)

To achieve this:

* Connect your device to your Mac and select Window > Devices in the Xcode menubar.
* Select your device in the left pane under the Devices section.
* This will show a list of developer-installed apps for that device.
* Select the app you want to inspect and then select the 3 dots icon near the bottom of the screen.
* Here you can view the current file system by selecting download a snapshot of it.

![image](/ios_debug_update_2.webp)

Selecting Download Container... will download and export a snapshot of the file system as a .xcappdata file that you can browse through.

![image](/ios_debug_update_3.webp)

Right-click on this file and select Show Package Contents to open the folder.

Open the App Data folder, and you should now see a few folders like Documents, Library, tmp, etc.

![image](/ios_debug_update_4.webp)

Then you will find a version in 2 folders:

`library/NoCloud/ionic_built_snapshots` is necessary after the app reboot

and `documents/versions` for hot reload

### Android

To debug on Android, you need to access the device from Android Studio:

* Click View > Tool Windows > Device File Explorer or click the Device File Explorer button in the tool window bar to open the Device File Explorer.
* Select a device from the dropdown list.
* Open the path **data/data/APP\_NAME/** where **APP\_NAME is your app ID.**

![image](/android_debug_update.webp)

Then Find the `versions` folder to see all the versions

:::tip[Did you know?]
On Android, all versions are stored in one folder, unlike IOS where it has to be duplicated in two locations.
:::

## Understanding ios production crash logs

<LinkCard
    title="How to review your app's crash logs"
    href="https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=nra79npr"
/>
