src/content/docs/docs/getting-help.mdx, before:

---
title: "Tech support for capgo"
description: "How to get tech support for capgo"
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## Support by discord

Capgo has an official [discord server](https://discord.com/invite/VnYRvBfgA6). Getting tech support there is likely one of the fastest ways to get a response.

Here is a crash course:

Step 1 - go to the `questions` channel

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-questions.webp" alt="Ask on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Step 2 - create your thread

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-newquestion.webp" alt="Create a question on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Step 3 - Describe your problem and select the relevant tags

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-new-post.webp" alt="Create a post on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>


Step 4 - Share your secure account id (optional)

This will allow the capgo staff to take a look at your account. Sharing this id is safe, as it was designed to be shared publicly.

To share this, please go to [capgo's settings](https://web.capgo.app/dashboard/settings/account/). There please click on `copy account id`.

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/share-secure-id.webp" alt="Share your id without leaking your info" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

This will copy the secure account id to the clipboard. Please include that in your discord post.

## Support by chat

This method will allow you to chat directly with capgo's staff. The response times might be slower than on discord but the community will not be able to see the conversation.

In order to open a chat please follow the instruction below

Step 1 - click on your `FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME` in the capgo's dashboard.
<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/firstname_lastname.webp" alt=" Fisrt name and last name" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Step 2 - click on support
<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/support_start.webp" alt="Start support" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

A window should pop out in the right-down corner.

Step 3 - start a conversation with capgo's staff
<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/start_conversation.webp" alt="Start conversation" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Please provide your account's email or secure account id if requested.

Commit message:

doc: improve the doc with new sections

src/content/docs/docs/getting-help.mdx, after:

---
title: "Tech support for capgo"
description: "How to get tech support for capgo"
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## Support by discord

Capgo has an official [discord server](https://discord.com/invite/VnYRvBfgA6). Getting tech support there is likely one of the fastest ways to get a response.

Here is a crash course:

Step 1 - go to the `questions` channel

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-questions.webp" alt="Ask on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Step 2 - create your thread

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-newquestion.webp" alt="Create a question on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Step 3 - Describe your problem and select the relevant tags

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/discord-new-post.webp" alt="Create a post on discord" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>


Step 4 - Share your secure account id (optional)

This will allow the capgo staff to take a look at your account. Sharing this id is safe, as it was designed to be shared publicly.

To share this, please go to [capgo's settings](https://web.capgo.app/dashboard/settings/account/). There please click on `copy account id`.

<figure><img style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto" src="/share-secure-id.webp" alt="Share your id without leaking your info" /><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

This will copy the secure account id to the clipboard. Please include that in your discord post.

## Support by email

This is the slowest way to get support. Please use the discord server first.

If you need to contact us by email, please send an email to support@capgo.app.
