src/content/docs/docs/cli/reference/bundle.mdx, before:

---
title: 📦 bundle
description: 📦 Manage app bundles for deployment in Capgo Cloud, including upload, compatibility checks, and encryption.
sidebar_label: bundle
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

📦 Manage app bundles for deployment in Capgo Cloud, including upload, compatibility checks, and encryption.

### <a id="bundle-upload"></a> ⬆️ **Upload**

**Alias:** `u`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle upload
```

⬆️ Upload a new app bundle to Capgo Cloud for distribution, optionally linking to a channel or external URL.
External option supports privacy concerns or large apps (>200MB) by storing only the link.
Capgo never inspects external content. Encryption adds a trustless security layer.
Version must be > 0.0.0 and unique.
> ℹ️ External option helps with corporate privacy concerns and apps larger than 200MB by storing only the link.

> ℹ️ Capgo Cloud never looks at the content in the link for external options or in the code when stored.

> ℹ️ You can add a second layer of security with encryption, making Capgo trustless.

> ℹ️ Version should be greater than "0.0.0" and cannot be overridden or reused after deletion for security reasons.


**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle upload com.example.app --path ./dist --channel production
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-p,** | <code>string</code> | Path of the folder to upload, if not provided it will use the webDir set in capacitor.config |
| **-c,** | <code>string</code> | Channel to link to |
| **-e,** | <code>string</code> | Link to external URL instead of upload to Capgo Cloud |
| **--iv-session-key** | <code>string</code> | Set the IV and session key for bundle URL external |
| **--s3-region** | <code>string</code> | Region for your S3 bucket |
| **--s3-apikey** | <code>string</code> | API key for your S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-apisecret** | <code>string</code> | API secret for your S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-endoint** | <code>string</code> | URL of S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-bucket-name** | <code>string</code> | Name for your AWS S3 bucket |
| **--s3-port** | <code>string</code> | Port for your S3 endpoint |
| **--no-s3-ssl** | <code>boolean</code> | Disable SSL for S3 upload |
| **--key-v2** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key (v2 system) |
| **--key-data-v2** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key (v2 system) |
| **--bundle-url** | <code>boolean</code> | Prints bundle URL into stdout |
| **--no-key** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore signing key and send clear update |
| **--no-code-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore checking if notifyAppReady() is called in source code and index present in root folder |
| **--display-iv-session** | <code>boolean</code> | Show in the console the IV and session key used to encrypt the update |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number of the bundle to upload |
| **--link** | <code>string</code> | Link to external resource (e.g. GitHub release) |
| **--comment** | <code>string</code> | Comment about this version, could be a release note, a commit hash, a commit message, etc. |
| **--min-update-version** | <code>string</code> | Minimal version required to update to this version. Used only if the disable auto update is set to metadata in channel |
| **--auto-min-update-version** | <code>boolean</code> | Set the min update version based on native packages |
| **--ignore-metadata-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignores the metadata (node_modules) check when uploading |
| **--ignore-checksum-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignores the checksum check when uploading |
| **--timeout** | <code>string</code> | Timeout for the upload process in seconds |
| **--multipart** | <code>boolean</code> | Uses multipart protocol to upload data to S3, Deprecated, use tus instead |
| **--zip** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload the bundle using zip to Capgo cloud (legacy) |
| **--tus** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload the bundle using TUS to Capgo cloud |
| **--tus-chunk-size** | <code>string</code> | Chunk size for the TUS upload |
| **--partial** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload partial files to Capgo cloud (deprecated, use --delta instead) |
| **--partial-only** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload only partial files to Capgo cloud, skip the zipped file, useful for big bundle (deprecated, use --delta-only instead) |
| **--delta** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload delta update to Capgo cloud (old name: --partial) |
| **--delta-only** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload only delta update to Capgo cloud, skip the zipped file, useful for big bundle (old name: --partial-only) |
| **--encrypted-checksum** | <code>string</code> | An encrypted checksum (signature). Used only when uploading an external bundle. |
| **--auto-set-bundle** | <code>boolean</code> | Set the bundle in capacitor.config.json |
| **--dry-upload** | <code>boolean</code> | Dry upload the bundle process, mean it will not upload the files but add the row in database (Used by Capgo for internal testing) |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |
| **--node-modules** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to node_modules. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../node_modules,./node_modules) |
| **--encrypt-partial** | <code>boolean</code> | Encrypt the partial update files (automatically applied for updater > 6.14.4) |
| **--delete-linked-bundle-on-upload** | <code>boolean</code> | Locates the currently linked bundle in the channel you are trying to upload to, and deletes it |
| **--no-brotli-patterns** | <code>string</code> | Glob patterns for files to exclude from brotli compression (comma-separated) |
| **--disable-brotli** | <code>boolean</code> | Completely disable brotli compression even if updater version supports it |
| **--silent-fail** | <code>boolean</code> | Exit successfully if bundle version already exists, useful for CI/CD workflows with monorepos |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL, for self-hosted Capgo or testing |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token, for self-hosted Capgo or testing |

### <a id="bundle-compatibility"></a> 🧪 **Compatibility**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle compatibility
```

🧪 Check compatibility of a bundle with a specific channel in Capgo Cloud to ensure updates are safe.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle compatibility com.example.app --channel production
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-c,** | <code>string</code> | Channel to check the compatibility with |
| **--text** | <code>boolean</code> | Output text instead of emojis |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |
| **--node-modules** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to node_modules. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../node_modules,./node_modules) |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-delete"></a> 🗑️ **Delete**

**Alias:** `d`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle delete
```

🗑️ Delete a specific bundle from Capgo Cloud, optionally targeting a single version.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle delete BUNDLE_ID com.example.app
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-list"></a> 📋 **List**

**Alias:** `l`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle list
```

📋 List all bundles uploaded for an app in Capgo Cloud.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle list com.example.app
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-cleanup"></a> 🧹 **Cleanup**

**Alias:** `c`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle cleanup
```

🧹 Cleanup old bundles in Capgo Cloud, keeping a specified number of recent versions or those linked to channels.
Ignores bundles in use.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle cleanup com.example.app --bundle=1.0 --keep=3
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number of the app to delete |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-k,** | <code>string</code> | Number of versions to keep |
| **-f,** | <code>string</code> | Force removal |
| **--ignore-channel** | <code>boolean</code> | Delete all versions even if linked to a channel, this will delete channel as well |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-encrypt"></a> 🔒 **Encrypt**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle encrypt
```

🔒 Encrypt a zip bundle using the new encryption method for secure external storage or testing.
Used with external sources or for testing, prints ivSessionKey for upload or decryption.
The command will return the ivSessionKey for upload or decryption.
The checksum is the checksum of the zip file, you can get it with the --json option of the zip command.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle encrypt ./myapp.zip CHECKSUM
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **--key** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key |
| **--key-data** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key |
| **-j,** | <code>string</code> | Output in JSON |

### <a id="bundle-decrypt"></a> 🔓 **Decrypt**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle decrypt
```

🔓 Decrypt a zip bundle using the new encryption method, mainly for testing purposes.
Prints the base64 decrypted session key for verification.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle decrypt ./myapp_encrypted.zip CHECKSUM
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **--key** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key |
| **--key-data** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key |
| **--checksum** | <code>string</code> | Checksum of the bundle, to verify the integrity of the bundle |

### <a id="bundle-zip"></a> 🔹 **Zip**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip
```

🗜️ Create a zip file of your app bundle for upload or local storage.
Useful for preparing bundles before encryption or upload.
The command will return the checksum of the zip file, you can use it to encrypt the zip file with the --key-v2 option.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip com.example.app --path ./dist
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-p,** | <code>string</code> | Path of the folder to upload, if not provided it will use the webDir set in capacitor.config |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number to name the zip file |
| **-n,** | <code>string</code> | Name of the zip file |
| **-j,** | <code>string</code> | Output in JSON |
| **--no-code-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore checking if notifyAppReady() is called in source code and index present in root folder |
| **--key-v2** | <code>boolean</code> | Use encryption v2 |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/Cap-go/CLI/commit/a822feec532710b59ec0e73755e4160621701878

src/content/docs/docs/cli/reference/bundle.mdx, after:

---
title: 📦 bundle
description: 📦 Manage app bundles for deployment in Capgo Cloud, including upload, compatibility checks, and encryption.
sidebar_label: bundle
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

📦 Manage app bundles for deployment in Capgo Cloud, including upload, compatibility checks, and encryption.

### <a id="bundle-upload"></a> ⬆️ **Upload**

**Alias:** `u`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle upload
```

⬆️ Upload a new app bundle to Capgo Cloud for distribution, optionally linking to a channel or external URL.
External option supports privacy concerns or large apps (>200MB) by storing only the link.
Capgo never inspects external content. Encryption adds a trustless security layer.
Version must be > 0.0.0 and unique.
> ℹ️ External option helps with corporate privacy concerns and apps larger than 200MB by storing only the link.

> ℹ️ Capgo Cloud never looks at the content in the link for external options or in the code when stored.

> ℹ️ You can add a second layer of security with encryption, making Capgo trustless.

> ℹ️ Version should be greater than "0.0.0" and cannot be overridden or reused after deletion for security reasons.


**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle upload com.example.app --path ./dist --channel production
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-p,** | <code>string</code> | Path of the folder to upload, if not provided it will use the webDir set in capacitor.config |
| **-c,** | <code>string</code> | Channel to link to |
| **-e,** | <code>string</code> | Link to external URL instead of upload to Capgo Cloud |
| **--iv-session-key** | <code>string</code> | Set the IV and session key for bundle URL external |
| **--s3-region** | <code>string</code> | Region for your S3 bucket |
| **--s3-apikey** | <code>string</code> | API key for your S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-apisecret** | <code>string</code> | API secret for your S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-endoint** | <code>string</code> | URL of S3 endpoint |
| **--s3-bucket-name** | <code>string</code> | Name for your AWS S3 bucket |
| **--s3-port** | <code>string</code> | Port for your S3 endpoint |
| **--no-s3-ssl** | <code>boolean</code> | Disable SSL for S3 upload |
| **--key-v2** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key (v2 system) |
| **--key-data-v2** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key (v2 system) |
| **--bundle-url** | <code>boolean</code> | Prints bundle URL into stdout |
| **--no-key** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore signing key and send clear update |
| **--no-code-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore checking if notifyAppReady() is called in source code and index present in root folder |
| **--display-iv-session** | <code>boolean</code> | Show in the console the IV and session key used to encrypt the update |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number of the bundle to upload |
| **--link** | <code>string</code> | Link to external resource (e.g. GitHub release) |
| **--comment** | <code>string</code> | Comment about this version, could be a release note, a commit hash, a commit message, etc. |
| **--min-update-version** | <code>string</code> | Minimal version required to update to this version. Used only if the disable auto update is set to metadata in channel |
| **--auto-min-update-version** | <code>boolean</code> | Set the min update version based on native packages |
| **--ignore-metadata-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignores the metadata (node_modules) check when uploading |
| **--ignore-checksum-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignores the checksum check when uploading |
| **--timeout** | <code>string</code> | Timeout for the upload process in seconds |
| **--multipart** | <code>boolean</code> | Uses multipart protocol to upload data to S3, Deprecated, use tus instead |
| **--zip** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload the bundle using zip to Capgo cloud (legacy) |
| **--tus** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload the bundle using TUS to Capgo cloud |
| **--tus-chunk-size** | <code>string</code> | Chunk size for the TUS upload |
| **--partial** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload partial files to Capgo cloud (deprecated, use --delta instead) |
| **--partial-only** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload only partial files to Capgo cloud, skip the zipped file, useful for big bundle (deprecated, use --delta-only instead) |
| **--delta** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload delta update to Capgo cloud (old name: --partial) |
| **--delta-only** | <code>boolean</code> | Upload only delta update to Capgo cloud, skip the zipped file, useful for big bundle (old name: --partial-only) |
| **--encrypted-checksum** | <code>string</code> | An encrypted checksum (signature). Used only when uploading an external bundle. |
| **--auto-set-bundle** | <code>boolean</code> | Set the bundle in capacitor.config.json |
| **--dry-upload** | <code>boolean</code> | Dry upload the bundle process, mean it will not upload the files but add the row in database (Used by Capgo for internal testing) |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |
| **--node-modules** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to node_modules. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../node_modules,./node_modules) |
| **--encrypt-partial** | <code>boolean</code> | Encrypt the partial update files (automatically applied for updater > 6.14.4) |
| **--delete-linked-bundle-on-upload** | <code>boolean</code> | Locates the currently linked bundle in the channel you are trying to upload to, and deletes it |
| **--no-brotli-patterns** | <code>string</code> | Glob patterns for files to exclude from brotli compression (comma-separated) |
| **--disable-brotli** | <code>boolean</code> | Completely disable brotli compression even if updater version supports it |
| **--silent-fail** | <code>boolean</code> | Exit successfully if bundle version already exists, useful for CI/CD workflows with monorepos |
| **--self-assign** | <code>boolean</code> | Allow device to self-assign to this channel, this will update the channel |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL, for self-hosted Capgo or testing |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token, for self-hosted Capgo or testing |

### <a id="bundle-compatibility"></a> 🧪 **Compatibility**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle compatibility
```

🧪 Check compatibility of a bundle with a specific channel in Capgo Cloud to ensure updates are safe.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle compatibility com.example.app --channel production
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-c,** | <code>string</code> | Channel to check the compatibility with |
| **--text** | <code>boolean</code> | Output text instead of emojis |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |
| **--node-modules** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to node_modules. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../node_modules,./node_modules) |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-delete"></a> 🗑️ **Delete**

**Alias:** `d`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle delete
```

🗑️ Delete a specific bundle from Capgo Cloud, optionally targeting a single version.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle delete BUNDLE_ID com.example.app
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-list"></a> 📋 **List**

**Alias:** `l`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle list
```

📋 List all bundles uploaded for an app in Capgo Cloud.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle list com.example.app
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-cleanup"></a> 🧹 **Cleanup**

**Alias:** `c`

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle cleanup
```

🧹 Cleanup old bundles in Capgo Cloud, keeping a specified number of recent versions or those linked to channels.
Ignores bundles in use.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle cleanup com.example.app --bundle=1.0 --keep=3
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number of the app to delete |
| **-a,** | <code>string</code> | API key to link to your account |
| **-k,** | <code>string</code> | Number of versions to keep |
| **-f,** | <code>string</code> | Force removal |
| **--ignore-channel** | <code>boolean</code> | Delete all versions even if linked to a channel, this will delete channel as well |
| **--supa-host** | <code>string</code> | Supabase host URL for custom setups |
| **--supa-anon** | <code>string</code> | Supabase anon token for custom setups |

### <a id="bundle-encrypt"></a> 🔒 **Encrypt**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle encrypt
```

🔒 Encrypt a zip bundle using the new encryption method for secure external storage or testing.
Used with external sources or for testing, prints ivSessionKey for upload or decryption.
The command will return the ivSessionKey for upload or decryption.
The checksum is the checksum of the zip file, you can get it with the --json option of the zip command.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle encrypt ./myapp.zip CHECKSUM
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **--key** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key |
| **--key-data** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key |
| **-j,** | <code>string</code> | Output in JSON |

### <a id="bundle-decrypt"></a> 🔓 **Decrypt**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle decrypt
```

🔓 Decrypt a zip bundle using the new encryption method, mainly for testing purposes.
Prints the base64 decrypted session key for verification.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle decrypt ./myapp_encrypted.zip CHECKSUM
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **--key** | <code>string</code> | Custom path for private signing key |
| **--key-data** | <code>string</code> | Private signing key |
| **--checksum** | <code>string</code> | Checksum of the bundle, to verify the integrity of the bundle |

### <a id="bundle-zip"></a> 🔹 **Zip**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip
```

🗜️ Create a zip file of your app bundle for upload or local storage.
Useful for preparing bundles before encryption or upload.
The command will return the checksum of the zip file, you can use it to encrypt the zip file with the --key-v2 option.

**Example:**

```bash
npx @capgo/cli@latest bundle zip com.example.app --path ./dist
```

**Options:**

| Param          | Type          | Description          |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **-p,** | <code>string</code> | Path of the folder to upload, if not provided it will use the webDir set in capacitor.config |
| **-b,** | <code>string</code> | Bundle version number to name the zip file |
| **-n,** | <code>string</code> | Name of the zip file |
| **-j,** | <code>string</code> | Output in JSON |
| **--no-code-check** | <code>boolean</code> | Ignore checking if notifyAppReady() is called in source code and index present in root folder |
| **--key-v2** | <code>boolean</code> | Use encryption v2 |
| **--package-json** | <code>string</code> | A list of paths to package.json. Useful for monorepos (comma separated ex: ../../package.json,./package.json) |
